ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the Forward Looking Statements included below the Table of Contents, Risk Factors, Selected Financial Data and the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Overview Prudential Financial has two classes of common stock outstanding. The Common Stock, which is publicly traded (NYSE:PRU), reflects the performance of the Financial Services Businesses, while the Class B Stock, which was issued through a private placement and does not trade on any exchange, reflects the performance of the Closed Block Business. The Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business are discussed below. Financial Services Businesses Our Financial Services Businesses consist of three operating divisions, which together encompass seven segments, and our Corporate and Other operations. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division consists of our Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division consists of our Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance and Investments division consists of our International Insurance and International Investments segments. Our Corporate and Other operations include our real estate and relocation services business, as well as corporate items and initiatives that are not allocated to business segments. Corporate and Other operations also include businesses that have been or will be divested and businesses that we have placed in wind down status. We attribute financing costs to each segment based on the amount of financing used by each segment, excluding financing costs associated with corporate debt which are reflected in Corporate and Other operations. The net investment income of each segment includes earnings on the amount of capital that management believes is necessary to support the risks of that segment. 79 Table of Contents We seek growth internally and through acquisitions, joint ventures or other forms of business combinations or investments. Our principal acquisition focus is in our current business lines, both domestic and international. Closed Block Business In connection with the demutualization, we ceased offering domestic participating products. The liabilities for our traditional domestic in force participating products were segregated, together with assets, in a regulatory mechanism referred to as the Closed Block. The Closed Block is designed generally to provide for the reasonable expectations for future policy dividends after demutualization of holders of participating individual life insurance policies and annuities included in the Closed Block by allocating assets that will be used exclusively for payment of benefits, including policyholder dividends, expenses and taxes with respect to these products. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Closed Block. At the time of demutualization, we determined the amount of Closed Block assets so that the Closed Block assets initially had a lower book value than the Closed Block liabilities. We expect that the Closed Block assets will generate sufficient cash flow, together with anticipated revenues from the Closed Block policies, over the life of the Closed Block to fund payments of all expenses, taxes, and policyholder benefits to be paid to, and the reasonable dividend expectations of, holders of the Closed Block policies. We also segregated for accounting purposes the assets that we need to hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies. No policies sold after demutualization will be added to the Closed Block, and its in force business is expected to ultimately decline as we pay policyholder benefits in full. We also expect the proportion of our business represented by the Closed Block to decline as we grow other businesses. Concurrently with our demutualization, Prudential Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial that owns the capital stock of Prudential Insurance, issued $1.75 billion in senior secured notes, which we refer to as the IHC debt. The net proceeds from the issuances of the Class B Stock and IHC debt, except for $72 million used to purchase a guaranteed investment contract to fund a portion of the bond insurance cost associated with that debt, were allocated to the Financial Services Businesses. However, we expect that the IHC debt will be serviced by the net cash flows of the Closed Block Business over time, and we include interest expenses associated with the IHC debt when we report results of the Closed Block Business. The Closed Block Business consists principally of the Closed Block, assets that we must hold outside the Closed Block to meet capital requirements related to the Closed Block policies, invested assets held outside the Closed Block that represent the difference between the Closed Block assets and Closed Block liabilities and the interest maintenance reserve, deferred policy acquisition costs related to Closed Block policies, the principal amount of the IHC debt and related hedging activities, and certain other related assets and liabilities. The Closed Block Business is not a separate legal entity from the Financial Services Businesses; however, they are operated as separate entities and are separated for financial reporting purposes. The Financial Services Businesses are not obligated to pay dividends on Closed Block policies. Dividends on Closed Block policies reflect the experience of the Closed Block over time and are subject to adjustment by Prudential Insurances Board of Directors. Further, our plan of demutualization provides that we are not required to pay dividends on policies within the Closed Block from assets that are not within the Closed Block and that the establishment of the Closed Block does not represent a guarantee that any certain level of dividends will be maintained. Revenues and Expenses We earn our revenues principally from insurance premiums; mortality, expense, and asset management and administrative fees from insurance and investment products; and investment of general account and other funds. We earn premiums primarily from the sale of individual life insurance and group life and disability insurance. We earn mortality, expense, and asset management fees from the sale and servicing of separate account products including variable life insurance and variable annuities. We also earn asset management and administrative fees from the distribution, servicing and management of mutual funds, retirement products and other asset management products and services. Our operating expenses principally consist of insurance benefits provided, general business expenses, dividends to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing the various products we sell and interest credited on general account liabilities. 80 Table of Contents Profitability Our profitability depends principally on our ability to price and manage risk on insurance products, our ability to attract and retain customer assets and our ability to manage expenses. Specific drivers of our profitability include: our ability to manufacture and distribute products and services and to introduce new products that gain market acceptance on a timely basis; our ability to price our insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring customers and administering those products; our mortality and morbidity experience on individual and group life insurance, annuity and group disability insurance products, which can fluctuate significantly from period to period; our persistency experience, which affects our ability to recover the cost of acquiring new business over the lives of the contracts; our cost of administering insurance contracts and providing asset management products and services; our ability to manage and control our operating expenses, including overhead expenses; our returns on invested assets, including the impact of credit losses, net of the amounts we credit to policyholders accounts; the amount of our assets under management and changes in their fair value, which affect the amount of asset management fees we receive; our ability to generate favorable investment results through asset/liability management and strategic and tactical asset allocation; our credit and financial strength ratings; our ability to effectively utilize our tax capacity; our returns on proprietary investments we make; our ability to manage risk and exposures, including the degree to which, and the effectiveness of, hedging these risks and exposures; our ability to effectively deploy capital; and our ability to attract and retain talent. In addition, factors such as credit and real estate market conditions, regulation, competition, interest rates, taxes, foreign exchange rates, market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions affect our profitability. In some of our product lines, particularly those in the Closed Block Business, we share experience on mortality, morbidity, persistency and investment results with our customers, which can offset the impact of these factors on our profitability from those products. Historically, the participating products included in the Closed Block have yielded lower returns on capital invested than many of our other businesses. As we have ceased offering domestic participating products, we expect that the proportion of the traditional participating products in our in force business will gradually diminish as these older policies age, and we grow other businesses. However, the relatively lower returns to us on this existing block of business will continue to affect our consolidated results of operations for many years. Our Common Stock reflects the performance of our Financial Services Businesses, but there can be no assurance that the market value of the Common Stock will reflect solely the performance of these businesses. See Risk Factors for a discussion of risks that have affected and may affect in the future our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. 81 Table of Contents Executive Summary Prudential Financial, a financial services leader with approximately $784 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2010, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe and Latin America. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we offer a wide array of financial products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. We offer these products and services to individual and institutional customers through one of the largest distribution networks in the financial services industry. Industry Trends Our U.S. and international businesses are impacted by financial markets, economic conditions, regulatory oversight, and a variety of trends that affect the industries where we compete. U.S. Businesses Financial and Economic Environment. Our businesses and results of operations are impacted by general economic and market conditions and are sensitive to changes in equity markets, interest rates and real estate valuations. The adverse market and economic conditions that began in the second half of 2007 have improved. The equity and fixed income markets continue to recover while the real estate markets stabilize and begin to show signs of recovery. Interest rates and the pace and extent of changes in rates have impacted the profitability of certain products we offer as well as returns on the investment portfolio backing our insurance liabilities and equity. Disruptions in the credit markets in recent years have also limited sales opportunities for certain products we offer. Regulatory Environment. Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision. The financial market dislocations we have experienced have produced, and are expected to continue to produce, extensive changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks applicable to our businesses. In particular, the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act signed into law on July 21, 2010 made comprehensive changes to the regulation of financial services in the U.S. and subjects us to substantial additional federal regulation. In addition, state insurance laws regulate all aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses and our insurance products are substantially affected by federal and state tax laws. Insurance regulators have begun to implement significant changes in the way in which industry participants must determine statutory reserves and statutory capital, particularly for products with embedded options and guarantees such as variable annuities, and are considering further potentially significant changes in these requirements. In addition, Congress from time to time considers legislation impacting U.S. federal income tax laws, such as the possible elimination of the dividends received deduction, which could adversely impact profitability or make our products less attractive to consumers. Demographics. Income protection, wealth accumulation and the needs of retiring baby boomers continue to shape the insurance industry. Retirement security is one of the most critical issues in the U.S. for individuals and the investment professionals and institutions that support them. The risk and responsibility of retirement savings continues to shift to employees, away from the government and employers. Life insurance ownership among U.S. households has reached its lowest point in fifty years, with consumers citing other financial priorities and cost of insurance as reasons for the lack of coverage. Competitive Environment. Our annuities, retirement and asset management businesses operate in a highly competitive environment. For the annuities business, market volatility in recent years has led many companies within the industry to reduce risks in product features and increase costs. In addition, some peer companies have either exited the variable annuity marketplace or substantially reduced product features. We believe our innovative product offerings have increased our competitiveness, thus increasing our sales. All of our new variable annuity sales, as well as a significant portion of our in force business, where an optional living benefit has been elected, include an automatic rebalancing feature, which is valued in the marketplace. Our retirement and asset management businesses compete on price, service and investment performance. The full service retirement markets are mature, with few dominant players. We have seen a trend toward unbundling of the 82 Table of Contents purchase decision related to the recordkeeping and investment offerings, where the variety of available funds and their performance are the key selection criteria of plan sponsors and intermediaries. Market disruption and rating agency downgrades have caused some of our institutional investment product competitors to withdraw from the market, creating significant growth opportunities for us in certain markets, including the investment only stable value market. The continued recovery of the equity, fixed income, and real estate markets in 2010 have positively impacted asset managers by increasing assets and therefore fee levels. In addition, institutional fixed income managers have generally experienced positive flows as investors have re allocated assets into fixed income to reduce risk, including the reduction of risk in pension plans. The individual life and group life and disability markets are mature and, due to the large number of competitors, competition is driven mainly by price and service. The economy has exacerbated pressure on pricing, creating an even greater challenge of maintaining pricing discipline. This has negatively impacted our individual life sales, in an industry which has shifted toward non proprietary distribution channels, which are more price sensitive than proprietary distribution channels. For group products, rate guarantees have become the industry norm, with rate guarantee durations trending upward as a general industry practice. There is also an increased demand from clients for bundling of products and services to streamline administration and save costs by dealing with fewer carriers. As employers are attempting to control costs and shift benefit decisions and funding to employees, who continue to value benefits offered in the workplace, employee pay (voluntary) product offerings and services are becoming increasingly important in the group market. Industry sales of voluntary products, as well as our own, were up again in 2010 despite the economic downturn. International Businesses Financial and Economic Environment. Our international businesses and the financial results of these operations are impacted by the global economy as well as the financial and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate. Recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. Similar to our U.S. businesses, interest rates and the pace and extent of changes in rates have impacted the profitability of certain products we offer as well as returns on the investment portfolio backing our insurance liabilities and equity. Our Japanese operations have operated in this environment for an extended period. We are also subject to financial impacts associated with movements in foreign currency rates, particularly the Japanese Yen. Regulatory Environment. Our international insurance and investments operations are subject to comprehensive local regulation and supervision. It is likely that the recent financial market dislocations will lead to changes in existing laws and regulations, and regulatory frameworks affecting our international businesses. The Financial Services Agency (FSA), the insurance regulator in Japan, has proposed revisions to the solvency margin requirements that will revise risk charges for certain assets and change the manner in which an insurance companys core capital is calculated. These changes are expected to become effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012. The capital requirements in Korea and Taiwan are also undergoing changes. The FSA in Japan has introduced other measures to prevent, in the future, similar problems to those experienced during the recent financial crisis, including a new regulatory framework for credit rating agencies, strengthened disclosure requirements and increased oversight of financial institutions. In addition, local regulations, primarily in Japan, may apply heightened scrutiny to non domestic companies. Our international investments businesses are also impacted by regulatory changes implemented or proposed in many of the countries in which we operate. Competitive Environment. The life insurance markets in Japan and Korea are mature. We generally compete more on service provided to the customers than on price. The aging of Japans population creates an increasing need for product innovation, introducing insurance products which allow for savings and income as the population transitions to retirement. In addition, several competitors have exited the life insurance business, creating greater opportunities for us to penetrate this market. For our international investments operations, the competitive landscape is influenced by implemented or planned regulatory changes, particularly in Mexico, Taiwan and China. Current Developments On February 1, 2011, Prudential Financial completed the acquisition from American International Group, Inc., or AIG, of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., or Star, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, or Edison, and certain other AIG subsidiaries pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 between 83 Table of Contents Prudential Financial and AIG. The total purchase price was approximately $4.8 billion, comprised of approximately $4.2 billion in cash and $0.6 billion in assumed third party debt, substantially all of which is expected to be repaid, over time, with excess capital of the acquired entities. To partially fund the acquisition purchase price, in November 2010, Prudential Financial completed a public offering and sale of 18,348,624 shares of Common Stock and $1.0 billion of medium term notes, resulting in aggregate proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion. The remainder of the purchase price was funded with approximately $2.2 billion of cash and short term investments. See Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division International Insurance and Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information on this acquisition. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law and could result in the imposition of new capital, liquidity and other requirements on Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. See Business Regulation for information regarding the potential impact of the Dodd Frank Act on the Company. Our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflect the following: Net income of our Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $2.714 billion compared to $3.411 billion for 2009, which included a $1.457 billion after tax gain from the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities. Pre tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments of the Financial Services Businesses in 2010 were $72 million, primarily reflecting other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities partially offset by net realized investment gains from increases in the market value of derivatives primarily related to interest rate derivatives used to manage investment portfolio duration and net gains related to the embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain of our variable annuity contracts partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $5.726 billion as of December 31, 2010, compared to net unrealized gains of $998 million as of December 31, 2009. Gross unrealized gains increased from $5.387 billion as of December 31, 2009 to $8.826 billion as of December 31, 2010 and gross unrealized losses decreased from $4.389 billion to $3.100 billion for the same periods primarily due to a net decrease in interest rates, mainly the result of risk free rates. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Closed Block Business amounted to $1.671 billion as of December 31, 2010, compared to net unrealized gains of $7 million as of December 31, 2009. Individual Annuity total account values of $106.2 billion and gross sales of $21.8 billion in 2010 represented record highs. Individual Annuity net sales also reached a record high in 2010 of $14.6 billion, an increase from $10.3 billion in the prior year. Full Service Retirement account values reached a record high of $141.3 billion at December 31, 2010. Total account values for the Retirement segment also reached a record high of $205.5 billion. Asset Management reached record high institutional net flows of $28.6 billion in 2010 and $537 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2010. International Insurance constant dollar basis annualized new business premiums were $1.8 billion in 2010, an increase from $1.4 billion in the prior year. Individual Life annualized new business premiums were $260 million in 2010, compared to $359 million in 2009. Group Insurance annualized new business premiums were $607 million in 2010, compared to $577 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, had cash and short term investments of $6.672 billion. On November 9, 2010, Prudential Financial declared an annual dividend for 2010 of $1.15 per share of Common Stock, reflecting an increase of approximately 64% from the 2009 Common Stock dividend. 84 Table of Contents Outlook Management expects that results in 2011 will continue to reflect the quality of our individual businesses and their prospects, as well as our overall business mix and effective capital management. In 2011, we continue to focus on long term strategic positioning and growth opportunities, including the following: U.S. Retirement and Investment Management Market. We look to capitalize on the growing need of baby boomers for products that provide guaranteed income for longer retirement periods. In addition, we continue to focus on our clients increasing needs for retirement income security given volatility in the financial markets. We also look to provide products that respond to the needs of plan sponsors to manage risk and stretch their benefit dollars. U.S. Insurance Market. We continue to focus on writing high quality business and expect to continue to benefit from expansion of our distribution channels and deepening our relationships with third party distributors. We also look to capitalize on opportunities for additional optional life purchases in the group insurance market, as institutional clients are focused on stretching their benefit dollars. International Markets. We continue to concentrate on deepening our presence in the markets in which we currently operate, such as Japan, and expanding our distribution capabilities, including through the integration of the recently acquired Star and Edison Businesses. We look to capitalize on opportunities arising in international markets as changing demographics and public policy have resulted in a growing demand for retirement income and protection products similar to those offered in the U.S. 85 Table of Contents Results of Operations We analyze performance of the segments and Corporate and Other operations of the Financial Services Businesses using a measure called adjusted operating income. See Consolidated Results of Operations Segment Measures for a discussion of adjusted operating income, including the change we made to this measure in the third quarter of 2010, and its use as a measure of segment operating performance. Shown below are the contributions of each segment and Corporate and Other operations to our adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income of our segments and Corporate and Other operations to income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Adjusted operating income before income taxes for segments of the Financial Services Businesses: Individual Annuities $ 1,046 $ 757 $ (890 ) Retirement 572 494 545 Asset Management 487 55 232 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division 2,105 1,306 (113 ) Individual Life 500 562 446 Group Insurance 215 331 340 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division 715 893 786 International Insurance 2,057 1,843 1,747 International Investments 46 27 (360 ) Total International Insurance and Investments Division 2,103 1,870 1,387 Corporate and Other (871 ) (795 ) (395 ) Adjusted operating income before income taxes for the Financial Services Businesses 4,052 3,274 1,665 Reconciling Items: Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments 106 (1,219 ) (2,777 ) Charges related to realized investment gains (losses), net (178 ) (492 ) 293 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net 501 1,601 (1,734 ) Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes (631 ) (899 ) 1,163 Divested businesses (55 ) 2,131 (506 ) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures (98 ) (2,364 ) 654 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services Businesses 3,697 2,032 (1,242 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business 725 (480 ) 16 Consolidated income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 4,422 $ 1,552 $ (1,226 ) Results for 2010 presented above reflect the following: Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for the Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $3,697 million, compared to $2,032 million for 2009. Adjusted operating income before income taxes for the Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $4,052 million, compared to $3,274 million for 2009. Individual Annuities segment results for 2010 increased in comparison to 2009 primarily reflecting higher fee income resulting from the impact of positive net flows and market appreciation on variable annuity account values during 2010. Retirement segment results for 2010 increased in comparison to 2009 primarily driven by higher asset based fees due to an increase in average full service fee based retirement account values resulting from market appreciation and net additions during 2010, and improved net investment spread results. 86 Table of Contents Asset Management segment results improved in 2010 in comparison to 2009 primarily from improved results from the segments commercial mortgage and proprietary investing activities and increased asset management fees. Individual Life segment results declined in 2010 compared to 2009 including $33 million from changes in mortality experience compared to expected levels. The current year included slightly unfavorable mortality experience, net of reinsurance relative to expected levels, compared to favorable mortality experience in the prior year. Results in 2010 also reflect an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, reflecting the impact of equity markets on separate account fund performance in the respective periods, partially offset by the favorable impact of variable life policyholder persistency. Also contributing to the decline was a $30 million benefit in 2009 from compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute, compared to a benefit of less than $1 million in 2010. Group Insurance segment results declined in 2010, compared to 2009. Results in 2010 reflect the net benefit from reserve refinements in both the group life and group disability businesses, including the impact from annual reviews, compared to a net benefit of zero in 2009. Excluding this item, the decrease in adjusted operating income primarily reflects less favorable group life underwriting results due largely to the lapse of certain business and repricing of other business up for renewal with favorable claims experience in the prior year, reflecting the competitive market, as well as an increase in the number and severity of claims. Results in 2010 also reflect less favorable long term disability claims experience consistent with the economic downturn. In addition, operating expenses increased, including higher costs to support disability operations and expansion into the group dental market. International Insurance segment results for 2010 improved from 2009. Results from the segments Life Planner operations improved in 2010, reflecting the continued growth of our Japanese Life Planner operation, partially offset by the comparative impact of a net charge in 2010 and a net benefit to results in 2009 from refinements due to implementation of a new policy valuation system. Results from the segments Gibraltar Life operation included a pre tax gain of $66 million related to shares sold by a consortium of investors that holds a minority interest in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd. The remainder of the improvements in results in 2010 came primarily from continued growth in our fixed annuity products, which are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and from business growth in protection products reflecting expanding bank channel distribution, as well as a greater contribution from non coupon investments. International Investments segment results for 2010 improved from 2009 primarily reflecting more favorable sales and trading results in the segments global commodities operations. Corporate and Other operations resulted in an increased loss for 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to increased interest expense, reflecting a greater level of capital debt, as well as less favorable results from corporate hedging activities and a higher level of expenses in other corporate activities, partially offset by improved results in our real estate and relocation services business. Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments for the Financial Services Businesses in 2010 amounted to a loss of $72 million, primarily reflecting other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities partially offset by net realized investment gains from increases in the market value of derivatives primarily related to interest rate derivatives used to manage investment portfolio duration and net gains related to the embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain of our variable annuity contracts partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes in the Closed Block Business increased $1,205 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily reflecting net realized investment gains in 2010, compared to losses in 2009, as well as an increase in net investment income, which were partially offset by an increase in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense. 87 Table of Contents Accounting Policies & Pronouncements Application of Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. Management, on an ongoing basis, reviews estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements. If management determines that modifications in assumptions and estimates are appropriate given current facts and circumstances, results of operations and financial position as reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements could change significantly. The following sections discuss the accounting policies applied in preparing our financial statements that management believes are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions and require managements most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. Deferred Policy Acquisition and Other Costs We capitalize costs that vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and annuity contracts. These costs primarily include commissions, costs of policy issuance and underwriting, and variable field office expenses that are incurred in producing new business. In addition, we also defer costs associated with sales inducements related to our variable and fixed annuity contracts primarily within our Individual Annuities segment. Sales inducements are amounts that are credited to the policyholders account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract. For additional information about sales inducements, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We amortize these deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC, and deferred sales inducements, or DSI, over the expected lives of the contracts, based on our estimates of the level and timing of gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums, depending on the type of contract. As described in more detail below, in calculating DAC and DSI amortization, we are required to make assumptions about investment returns, mortality, persistency, and other items that impact our estimates of the level and timing of gross margins, gross profits, or gross premiums. As of December 31, 2010, DAC and DSI in our Financial Services Businesses were $15.7 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and DAC in our Closed Block Business was $763 million. Amortization methodologies DAC associated with the traditional participating products of our Closed Block Business is amortized over the expected lives of those contracts in proportion to estimated gross margins. Gross margins consider premiums, investment returns, benefit claims, costs for policy administration, changes in reserves, and dividends to policyholders. We evaluate our estimates of future gross margins and adjust the related DAC balance with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of actual gross margins and changes in our expected future gross margins. We also evaluate the recoverability of the DAC balance at the end of each reporting period. Many of the factors that affect gross margins are included in the determination of our dividends to these policyholders. DAC adjustments generally have not created significant volatility in our results of operations since, during most years, the Closed Block has recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense in Policyholders dividends, for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings as determined at the time of demutualization. However, if actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense, changes in gross margins and DAC amortization could result in greater volatility in the Closed Block Business results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $126 million. DAC associated with the non participating whole life and term life policies of our Individual Life segment and the non participating whole life, term life, endowment and health policies of our International Insurance segment is amortized in proportion to gross premiums. We evaluate the recoverability of our DAC related to these policies as part of our premium deficiency testing. If a premium deficiency exists, we reduce DAC by the amount of the deficiency or to zero through a charge to current period earnings. If the deficiency is more than the DAC balance, we then increase the reserve for future policy benefits by the excess, by means of a charge to current period earnings. Generally, we do not expect significant deterioration in future experience, and therefore do not expect significant writedowns to the related DAC. 88 Table of Contents DAC and DSI associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life and International Insurance segments and the variable and fixed annuity contracts of our Individual Annuities and International Insurance segments are amortized over the expected life of these policies in proportion to gross profits. DAC and DSI are also subject to recoverability testing which we perform at the end of each reporting period to ensure that each balance does not exceed the present value of estimated gross profits. In calculating gross profits, we consider mortality, persistency, and other elements as well as rates of return on investments associated with these contracts and the costs related to our guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed minimum income benefits. Total gross profits include both actual experience and estimates of gross profits for future periods. We regularly evaluate and adjust the related DAC and DSI balances with a corresponding charge or credit to current period earnings for the effects of our actual gross profits and changes in our assumptions regarding estimated future gross profits. Adjustments to the DAC and DSI balances include the impact to our estimate of total gross profits of the annual review of assumptions, our quarterly adjustments for current period experience, and our quarterly adjustments for market performance. Each of these adjustments is further discussed below in Annual assumptions review and quarterly adjustments. In addition to the gross profit components mentioned above, we also include the impact of the embedded derivatives associated with certain of the optional living benefit features of our variable annuity contracts and related hedging activities in actual gross profits used as the basis for calculating current period amortization. Historically, we also included the impact of these embedded derivatives and related hedging activities, excluding the impact of the market perceived risk of our own non performance, in our estimate of total gross profits used to determine the DAC and DSI amortization rates. In the third quarter of 2010, we revised our hedging strategy, which resulted in a change in how certain gross profit components are used to determine the DAC and DSI amortization rates. Historically, as part of our hedging strategy, we sought to generally match the sensitivities of the embedded derivative liability as defined by GAAP, excluding the impact of the market perceived risk of our own non performance, with capital market derivatives and options. Under our new hedging strategy, our hedge target continues to be grounded in a GAAP/capital markets valuation framework but incorporates modifications to the risk free return assumption to account for the fact that the underlying customer separate account funds which support these living benefits are invested in assets that contain risk. The modifications include the removal of a volatility risk margin embedded in the valuation technique used to fair value the embedded derivative liability under GAAP, and the inclusion of a credit spread over the risk free rate used to estimate future growth of bond investments in the customer separate account funds. For a discussion of the change in our hedging strategy and the results of our hedging program, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities Net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions. As mentioned above, this change in our hedging strategy also led to a change in the components included in our estimate of total gross profits used to determine the DAC and DSI amortization rates. As of the third quarter of 2010, managements best estimate of the total gross profits associated with these optional living benefit features and related hedge positions is based on the updated hedge target definition as described above. However, total gross profits for these purposes includes the difference between the value of the hedge target liability and asset value only to the extent this net amount is determined by management to be other than temporary, as well as the impact of assumption updates on the valuation of the hedge target liability. The determination of whether the difference between the value of the hedge target liability and asset value is other than temporary is based on an evaluation of the effectiveness of the hedge program. Management generally expects differences between the value of the hedge target liability and asset value to be temporary and to reverse over time. Such differences would not be included in total gross profits for purposes of determining the amortization rates. However, based on the effectiveness of the hedge program, management may determine that the difference between the value of the hedge target liability and the asset value is other than temporary and would include that amount in managements best estimate of total gross profits for setting the DAC and DSI amortization rates. Management may also decide to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from the target hedge definition, given overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing market conditions. The impact from temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from the hedge target definition, as well as the results of the capital hedge program we began in the second quarter of 2009 and modified in 2010, are not considered in calculating total gross profits used to determine amortization rates nor included in actual gross profits used in calculating current period amortization. 89 Table of Contents Annual assumptions review and quarterly adjustments Annually, during the third quarter, we perform a comprehensive review of the assumptions used in estimating gross profits for future periods. Although we review these assumptions on an ongoing basis throughout the year, we generally only update these assumptions and adjust the DAC and DSI balances during the third quarter, unless a material change that we feel is indicative of a long term trend is observed in an interim period. Over the last several years, the Companys most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross profits and the amortization of DAC and DSI have been related to lapse experience and other contractholder behavior assumptions, mortality, and revisions to expected future rates of returns on investments. We expect these assumptions to be the ones most likely to cause potential significant changes in the future. The impact on our results of operations of changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and we are unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience referred to above reflect the impact of differences between actual gross profits for a given period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for that period. To the extent each periods actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change. In these cases, we recognize a cumulative adjustment to all previous periods amortization, also referred to as an experience true up adjustment. The quarterly adjustments for market performance referred to above reflect the impact of changes to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance. A significant portion of gross profits for our variable annuity contracts and, to a lesser degree, our variable life policies are dependent upon the total rate of return on assets held in separate account investment options. This rate of return influences the fees we earn, costs we incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed minimum income benefit features related to our variable annuity contracts, as well as other sources of profit. Returns that are higher than our expectations for a given period produce higher than expected account balances, which increase the fees we earn and decrease the costs we incur associated with the guaranteed minimum death and guaranteed minimum income benefit features related to our variable annuity contracts, resulting in higher expected future gross profits and lower DAC and DSI amortization for the period. The opposite occurs when returns are lower than our expectations. The near term future rate of return assumptions used in evaluating DAC and DSI for our domestic variable annuity and variable life insurance products are derived using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. If the projected future rate of return over the four year period is greater than our maximum future rate of return, we use our maximum future rate of return. As of December 31, 2010, our long term expected rates of return across all asset types for variable annuity contracts and variable life policies range from 7.4% to 7.8% per annum, depending on the specific block of business, and reflect, among other assumptions, an expected rate of return of 9.3% per annum for equity type assets and a 5.7% annual weighted average rate of return on fixed income investments. Unless there is a sustained interim deviation, our long term expected rate of return assumptions generally are not impacted by short term market fluctuations. As of December 31, 2010, our near term maximum future rate of return under the reversion to the mean approach for variable annuity contracts and variable life policies was 9.6% and 9.8% per annum, respectively. Included in this blended maximum future rate are assumptions for returns on various asset classes, including a 13% annual maximum rate of return on equity investments and a 5.7% annual weighted average rate of return on fixed income investments. We update the projected future rate of return and our estimate of total gross profits each quarter to reflect the result of the reversion to the mean approach. These market performance related adjustments to our estimate of total gross profits result in cumulative adjustments to prior amortization, reflecting the application of the new required rate of amortization to all prior periods gross profits. The new required rate of amortization is also applied prospectively to future gross profits in calculating amortization in future periods. For domestic variable annuities contracts and domestic variable life policies, as of December 31, 2010, our expected rate of return for the next four years across all asset types is 7.1% and 8.6% per annum, respectively. These rates represent a weighted average of our expected rates of return across all contract groups. For some contract groups, our expected rate of return for the next four years equals our current maximum future rates of return, as the near term 90 Table of Contents projected future rate of return under the reversion to the mean approach is greater than our maximum future rate of return. For certain contract groups relating to variable annuities issued in 2009 and 2010, the expected rate of return over the next four years is under 7.1% per annum, reflecting the impact of more favorable markets in 2009 and 2010 and the reversion to the mean approach. Sensitivity For the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment, a significant portion of our gross profits is derived from mortality margins. As a result, our estimates of future gross profits are significantly influenced by our mortality assumptions. Our mortality assumptions represent our expected claims experience over the life of these policies and are developed based on Company experience or standard industry tables. Unless a material change in mortality experience that we feel is indicative of a long term trend is observed in an interim period, we generally update our mortality assumptions annually in the third quarter. Updates to our mortality assumptions in future periods could have a significant adverse or favorable effect on the results of our operations in the Individual Life segment. For the variable and universal life policies in our International Insurance segment, mortality assumptions impact to a lesser extent our estimates of future gross profits due to differences in policyholder demographics, the overall age of this block of business, the amount of mortality margins and our actual mortality experience. The DAC balance associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment as of December 31, 2010 was $2.7 billion. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of that DAC balance relative to our future mortality assumptions by quantifying the adjustments that would be required, assuming both an increase and decrease in our future mortality rate by 1%. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future mortality assumptions, it is a near term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our mortality assumptions on the DAC balance and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, future rate of return, or expenses included in our evaluation of DAC, and does not reflect changes in reserves, such as the unearned revenue reserve, which would partially offset the adjustments to the DAC balance reflected below. The impact of the unearned revenue reserve is discussed in more detail below in Policyholder Liabilities. December 31, 2010 Increase/(Reduction) in DAC (in millions) Decrease in future mortality by 1% $ 44 Increase in future mortality by 1% $ (45 ) For a discussion of DAC adjustments related to our Individual Life segment for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division Individual Life. For variable annuity contracts, DAC and DSI are more sensitive to changes in our future rate of return assumptions due primarily to the significant portion of our gross profits that is dependent upon the total rate of return on assets held in separate account investment options, and the shorter average life of the contracts. The DAC and DSI balances associated with our domestic variable annuity contracts were $3.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of each of these balances relative to our future rate of return assumptions by quantifying the adjustments to each balance that would be required assuming both an increase and decrease in our future rate of return by 100 basis points. The sensitivity includes an increase and decrease of 100 basis points to both the near term future rate of return assumptions used over the next four years, and the long term expected rate of return used thereafter. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future rate of return assumptions, it is a near term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our future rate of return on the DAC and DSI balances and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, mortality, or expenses included in our evaluation of DAC and DSI. Further, this information does not reflect changes in reserves, such 91 Table of Contents as the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and optional living benefit features of our variable annuity products, or the impact that changes in such reserves may have on the DAC and DSI balances. December 31, 2010 Increase/(Reduction) in DAC Increase/(Reduction) in DSI (in millions) Decrease in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ (57 ) $ (19 ) Increase in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ 57 $ 19 For a discussion of DAC and DSI adjustments related to our Individual Annuities segment for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Valuation of Business Acquired In addition to DAC and DSI, we also recognize an asset for valuation of business acquired, or VOBA. As of December 31, 2010, VOBA was $484 million, all within our Financial Services Businesses. VOBA represents the present value of future profits embedded in acquired businesses, and is determined by estimating the net present value of future cash flows from the contracts in force at the date of acquisition. We have established a VOBA asset primarily for our acquired traditional life, deferred annuity, defined contribution and defined benefit businesses. VOBA is amortized over the effective life of the acquired contracts. For additional information about VOBA including details on items included in our estimates of future cash flows for the various acquired businesses and its bases for amortization, see Note 2 and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. VOBA is also subject to recoverability testing at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the balance does not exceed the present value of anticipated gross profits. Based on this recoverability testing, in 2009 we impaired the entire remaining VOBA asset related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate. For additional information regarding this charge, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of December 31 of each year and more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the potential for impairment is more likely than not. The test is performed at the reporting unit level which is equal to or one level below our operating segments. Reporting units that had goodwill subject to testing as of December 31, 2010 were the Asset Management segment, the International Insurance segments Life Planners business and the Retirement segments Full Service business. As required by accounting guidance, the impairment testing process consists of two steps. Step 1 requires that the fair value of the reporting unit be calculated and compared to the reporting units carrying value. If the fair value is greater than the carrying value, it is concluded there is no impairment and the analysis is complete. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, Step 2 of the process is completed to determine the amount of impairment, if any. Step 2 utilizes business combination purchase accounting guidance and requires the fair value calculation of all individual assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (excluding goodwill, but including any unrecognized intangible assets). The net fair value of assets less liabilities is then compared to the reporting units total fair value as calculated in Step 1. The excess of fair value over the net asset value equals the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is then compared to the carrying value of goodwill to determine the reporting units goodwill impairment loss, if any. The fair value of reporting units calculated in Step 1 was determined using either an earnings multiple approach or a discounted cash flow approach. The earnings multiple approach was the primary approach for the Asset Management and International Insurance reporting units. The discounted cash flow approach was primarily utilized by the Retirement reporting unit. Earnings multiples used ranged from 6.3 to 13.2 times earnings while the discount rate used was 12%. The earnings multiple approach indicates the value of a business based on comparison to publicly traded comparable companies in similar lines of business. Each comparable company is analyzed based on various 92 Table of Contents factors, including, but not limited to, financial risk, size, geographic diversification, profitability, adequate financial data, and an actively traded stock price. A multiple of price to earnings is developed for the comparable companies using independent analysts consensus estimates for each companys 2011 forecasted earnings. The multiple is then applied to the 2011 forecasted earnings of the reporting unit to develop a value. A control premium is then added to determine a total estimated fair value for the reporting unit. The discounted cash flow approach calculates the value of a business by applying a discount rate reflecting the market expected weighted average rate of return to the projected future cash flows of the reporting unit. The weighted average rate of return, or WARR, represents the required rate of return on total capitalization. It is comprised of a required rate of return on equity of a company and the current tax affected cost of debt, which are then weighted by the relative percentages of equity and debt in the capital structure. To estimate the return on equity, we applied the Capital Asset Pricing Model, or CAPM. The CAPM is a generally accepted method for estimating an equity investors return requirement, and hence a companys cost of equity capital. CAPM is determined by beginning with the long term risk free rate of return then applying adjustments that consider the equity risk premium required for large company common stock investments as well as company specific adjustments to address volatility, small company premiums and other risks particular to a specific company. The WARR calculation is applied to a group of companies considered peers of the reporting unit to develop a weighted average rate of return for the peer group which is then used to estimate the market expected weighted average rate of return for the reporting unit. After completion of Step 1 of the analysis, it was determined that fair value exceeded the carrying value for each of the three reporting units and it was concluded there was no impairment as of December 31, 2010. The Asset Management and International Insurance Life Planner businesses had estimated fair values that exceeded their carrying values by 437% and 13%, respectively. The fair value of the Retirement Full Service business, which was calculated based upon application of the discounted cash flow approach utilizing a discount rate of 12%, exceeded the carrying value by 24%. As of December 31, 2010, we had a total goodwill balance of $707 million, including $444 million related to our Retirement reporting unit, $239 million related to our Asset Management reporting unit, and $24 million related to our International Insurance reporting unit. Further market declines or other events impacting the fair value of these businesses, or increases in the level of equity required to support these businesses, could result in goodwill impairments, resulting in a charge to income. During 2008, we recorded a total impairment charge for goodwill of $337 million, which was included in General and administrative expenses. These impairments reflected the deterioration of financial conditions in 2008 and the impact of this deterioration on expected future earnings of these businesses, including: (1) for our Individual Annuities reporting unit, equity market declines and resulting additional market depreciation within separate account assets and corresponding decreases in our anticipated future fee income; (2) for our International Investments reporting unit, significant market deterioration resulting in both a reduction in value and an outflow of assets under management which contributed to lower asset management fees earned in the fourth quarter of 2008 and expected in future periods and (3) for our Prudential Real Estate and Relocation reporting unit, further deterioration of the U.S. housing market, including the number of transactions and the national average home sale price which both declined in the fourth quarter of 2008, and the impact of this decline on future anticipated revenues of this business. Valuation of Investments, Including Derivatives, and the Recognition of Other than Temporary Impairments Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities, other invested assets, and derivative financial instruments. Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the values of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments we generally use include swaps, futures, forwards and options and may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market. We are also party to financial instruments that contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. Management believes the following accounting policies related to investments, including derivatives, are most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. Each of these policies is discussed further within other relevant disclosures related to the investments and derivatives, as referenced below. Valuation of investments, including derivatives 93 Table of Contents Recognition of other than temporary impairments Determination of the valuation allowance for losses on commercial mortgage and other loans We present our investments classified as available for sale, including fixed maturity and equity securities, our investments classified as trading, such as our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, our derivatives, and our embedded derivatives at fair value in the statements of financial position. For additional information regarding the key estimates and assumptions surrounding the determination of fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities, as well as derivative instruments, embedded derivatives and other investments, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities. For our investments classified as available for sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net, a separate component of equity. For our investments classified as trading, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. In addition, investments classified as available for sale, as well as those classified as held to maturity, are subject to impairment reviews to identify when a decline in value is other than temporary. For a discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities and Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Equity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities. Commercial mortgage and other loans are carried primarily at unpaid principal balances, net of unamortized premiums or discounts and a valuation allowance for losses. For a discussion of our policies regarding the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality. For a discussion of our investment portfolio, including the gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2010, related to the fixed maturity and equity securities of our general account, and the carrying value, credit quality, and allowance for losses related to the commercial mortgage and other loans of our general account, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments. For a discussion of the effects of impairments and changes to the valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans on our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Policyholder Liabilities Future Policy Benefit Reserves, other than Unpaid Claims and Claim Adjustment Expenses We establish reserves for future policy benefits to or on behalf of policyholders in the same period in which the policy is issued. These reserves relate primarily to the traditional participating whole life policies of our Closed Block Business and the non participating whole life, term life, and life contingent structured settlement and group annuity products of our Financial Services Businesses. The future policy benefit reserves for the traditional participating life insurance products of our Closed Block Business, which as of December 31, 2010, represented 39% of our total future policy benefit reserves are determined using the net level premium method as prescribed by U.S. GAAP. Under this method, the future policy benefit reserves are accrued as a level proportion of the premium paid by the policyholder. In applying this method, we use mortality assumptions to determine our expected future benefits and expected future premiums, and apply an interest rate to determine the present value of both the expected future benefit payments and the expected future premiums. The mortality assumptions used are based on data from the standard industry mortality tables that were used to determine the cash surrender value of the policies, and the interest rates used 94 Table of Contents are the contractually guaranteed interest rates used to calculate the cash surrender value of the policy. Gains or losses in our results of operations resulting from deviations in actual experience compared to the experience assumed in establishing our reserves for this business are recognized in the determination of our annual dividends to these policyholders. These gains or losses generally have not created significant volatility in our results of operations since, during most years, the Closed Block has recognized a cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense in Policyholders dividends, for the excess of actual cumulative earnings over expected cumulative earnings as determined at the time of demutualization. However, if actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, thereby eliminating the cumulative policyholder dividend obligation expense, these gains or losses could result in greater volatility in the Closed Block Business results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $126 million. The future policy benefit reserves for our International Insurance segment and Individual Life segment, which as of December 31, 2010, represented 45% of our total future policy benefit reserves combined, relate primarily to non participating whole life and term life products and are determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as the present value of expected future benefits to or on behalf of policyholders plus the present value of future maintenance expenses less the present value of future net premiums. The expected future benefits and expenses are determined using assumptions as to mortality, lapse, and maintenance expense. Reserve assumptions are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the policy is issued with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium deficiency tests using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these best estimate assumptions are greater than the net U.S. GAAP liabilities (i.e., reserves net of any DAC asset), the existing net U.S. GAAP liabilities are adjusted to the greater amount. Our best estimate assumptions are determined by product group. Mortality assumptions are generally based on the Companys historical experience or standard industry tables, as applicable; our expense assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. Unless a material change in mortality experience is observed in an interim period that we feel is indicative of a long term trend, we generally update our mortality assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. Generally, we do not expect our mortality trends to change significantly in the short term and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long term. The reserves for future policy benefits of our Retirement segment, which as of December 31, 2010 represented 11% of our total future policy benefit reserves, relate to our non participating life contingent group annuity and structured settlement products. These reserves are generally determined as the present value of expected future benefits and expenses based on assumptions as to mortality, retirement, maintenance expense, and interest rates. Reserves are based on best estimate assumptions as of the date the contract is issued with provisions for the risk of adverse deviation. After our reserves are initially established, we perform premium deficiency testing by product group using best estimate assumptions as of the testing date without provisions for adverse deviation. If reserves determined based on these assumptions are greater than the existing reserves, the existing reserves are adjusted to the greater amount. Our best estimate assumptions are determined by product group. Our mortality and retirement assumptions are based on Company or industry experience; our expense assumptions are based on current levels of maintenance costs, adjusted for the effects of inflation; and our interest rate assumptions are based on current and expected net investment returns. Although we review our mortality and retirement assumptions on an ongoing basis throughout the year, we generally only updates these assumptions annually during the third quarter unless a material change in mortality or retirement experience is observed in an interim period that we feel is indicative of a long term trend. Generally, we do not expect our actual mortality or retirement trends to change significantly in the short term and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long term. The remaining 5% of the reserves for future policy benefits as of December 31, 2010 represented reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and optional living benefit features of the variable annuity products in our Individual Annuities segment, and group life and disability and long term care benefits in our Group Insurance segment. The optional living benefits are primarily accounted for as embedded derivatives, with fair values calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. For additional information regarding the valuation of these optional living benefit features, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features. 95 Table of Contents In establishing reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits related to variable annuity contracts, we must make estimates and assumptions about the timing of annuitization, contract lapses and contractholder mortality, as well as interest rates and equity market returns. Assumptions relating to contractholder behavior, such as the timing of annuitization and contract lapses, are based on our experience by contract group, and vary by product type and year of issuance. Our dynamic lapse rate assumption applies a different lapse rate on a contract by contract basis based on a comparison of the guaranteed minimum death or income benefit and the current policyholder account value as well as other factors such as the applicability of any surrender charges. In the money contracts are those with a guaranteed minimum benefit in excess of the current policyholder account value. Since in the money contracts are less likely to lapse, we apply a lower lapse rate assumption to these contracts. As an example, the lapse rate assumptions for contracts that are not in the money and are out of their surrender charge period average between 8% and 20% per year, and the lapse rate assumptions for contracts that are in the money and are out of their surrender charge period average between 0% and 20% per year. Mortality assumptions are generally based on our historical experience or standard industry tables, and also vary by contract group. Unless a material change in contractholder behavior or mortality experience that we feel is indicative of a long term trend is observed in an interim period, we generally update assumptions related to contractholder behavior and mortality in the third quarter of each year by considering the actual results that have occurred during the period from the most recent update to the expected amounts. Over the last several years, the Companys most significant assumption updates that have resulted in changes to our reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits have been related to lapse experience and other contractholder behavior assumptions and revisions to expected future rates of returns on investments. The Company expects these assumptions to be the ones most likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and can also impact our DAC and other balances as discussed above. Generally, we do not expect our actual mortality trends to change significantly in the short term, and to the extent these trends may change we expect such changes to be gradual over the long term. The future rate of return assumptions used in establishing reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits related to variable annuity contracts are derived using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. For additional information regarding our future expected rate of return assumptions and our reversion to the mean approach see, Deferred Policy Acquisition and Other Costs. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of the reserves for guaranteed minimum death benefit and guaranteed minimum income benefit, or GMDB and GMIB, related to variable annuity contracts relative to our future rate of return assumptions by quantifying the adjustments to these reserves that would be required assuming both a 100 basis point increase and decrease in our future rate of return. The sensitivity includes an increase and decrease of 100 basis points to both the near term future rate of return assumptions used over the next four years, and the long term expected rate of return used thereafter. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future rate of return assumptions, it is a near term, reasonably likely change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change. This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our future rate of return on operating results due to the change in the reserve balance and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, mortality, or expenses included in our evaluation of the reserves, or any changes on DAC or other balances, discussed above in Deferred Policy Acquisition and Other Costs. December 31, 2010 Increase/(Reduction) inGMDB/GMIB Reserves (in millions) Decrease in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ 94 Increase in future rate of return by 100 basis points $ (73 ) For a discussion of adjustments to the reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits related to our Individual Annuities segment for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. 96 Table of Contents Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses Our liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses of $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2010 is reported as a component of Future policy benefits and relates primarily to the group long term disability products of our Group Insurance segment. This liability represents our estimate of future disability claim payments and expenses as well as estimates of claims that we believe have been incurred, but have not yet been reported as of the balance sheet date. We do not establish loss liabilities until a loss has occurred. As prescribed by U.S. GAAP, our liability is determined as the present value of expected future claim payments and expenses. Expected future claims payments are estimated using assumed mortality and claim termination factors and an assumed interest rate. The mortality and claim termination factors are based on standard industry tables and the Companys historical experience. Our interest rate assumptions are based on factors such as market conditions and expected investment returns. Of these assumptions, our claim termination assumptions have historically had the most significant effect on our level of liability. We review our claim termination assumptions compared to actual terminations annually. These studies review actual claim termination experience over a number of years with more weight placed on the actual experience in the more recent years. Recently, our claim termination experience has been impacted by increased volatility driven by the economic downturn. If actual experience results in a different assumption, we adjust our liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses accordingly with a charge or credit to current period earnings. Unearned revenue reserves for universal life and investment contracts Our unearned revenue reserve, or URR, reported as a component of Policyholders account balances, is $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2010. This reserve primarily relates to variable and universal life products within our Individual Life segment and represents policy charges for services to be provided in future periods. The charges are deferred as unearned revenue and amortized over the expected life of the contract in proportion to the products estimated gross profits, similar to DAC as discussed above. For the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment, a significant portion of our gross profits is derived from mortality margins. As a result, our estimates of future gross profits are significantly influenced by our mortality assumptions. Our mortality assumptions represent our expected claims experience over the life of these policies and are developed based on Company experience or standard industry tables. Unless a material change in mortality experience that we feel is indicative of a long term trend is observed in an interim period, we generally update our mortality assumptions annually in the third quarter. Updates to our mortality assumptions in future periods could have a significant adverse or favorable effect on the results of our operations in the Individual Life segment. The URR balance associated with the variable and universal life policies of our Individual Life segment as of December 31, 2010 was $1.1 billion. The following table provides a demonstration of the sensitivity of that URR balance relative to our future mortality assumptions by quantifying the adjustments that would be required, assuming both an increase and decrease in our future mortality rate by 1%. While the information below is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future mortality assumptions, it is a near term, reasonably likely hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such a change on the URR balance and does not reflect the offsetting impact of such a change on the DAC balance as discussed above in Deferred Policy Acquisition and Other Costs. This information considers only the direct effect of changes in our mortality assumptions on the URR balance and not changes in any other assumptions such as persistency, future rate of return, or expenses included in our evaluation of URR. December 31, 2010 Increase/(Reduction) in URR (in millions) Decrease in future mortality by 1% $ 26 Increase in future mortality by 1% $ (27 ) For a discussion of URR adjustments related to our Individual Life segment for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division Individual Life. 97 Table of Contents Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits We sponsor pension and other postretirement benefit plans covering employees who meet specific eligibility requirements. Our net periodic costs for these plans consider an assumed discount (interest) rate, an expected rate of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and trends in health care costs. Of these assumptions, our expected rate of return assumptions, and to a lesser extent our discount rate assumptions, have historically had the most significant effect on our net period costs associated with these plans. We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon a building block approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for our actual asset allocations by asset category and the asset allocation ranges prescribed by our investment policy guidelines for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Our assumed long term rate of return for 2010 was 7.50% for our pension plans and 7.50% for our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31, 2009, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed long term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning of the measurement year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long term rate of return. For the year ended December 31, 2010 Increase/(Decrease) in NetPeriodic Pension Cost Increase/(Decrease) in NetPeriodic Other PostretirementCost (in millions) Increase in expected rate of return by 100 basis points $ (98 ) $ (14 ) Decrease in expected rate of return by 100 basis points $ 98 $ 14 We determine our discount rate, used to value the pension and postretirement benefit obligations, based upon rates commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the December 31, 2009 methodology we employed to determine our discount rate for 2010. Our assumed discount rate for 2010 was 5.75% for our pension plans and 5.50% for our other postretirement benefit plans. Given the amount of pensions and postretirement obligation as of December 31, 2009, the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic costs would have been as shown in the table below. The information provided in the table below considers only changes in our assumed discount rate without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate. For the year ended December 31, 2010 Increase/(Decrease) in NetPeriodic Pension Cost Increase/(Decrease) in NetPeriodic Other PostretirementCost (in millions) Increase in discount rate by 100 basis points $ (2 ) $ (5 ) Decrease in discount rate by 100 basis points $ 49 $ 3 Given the application of the authoritative guidance for accounting for pensions, and the deferral and amortization of actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in our assumed discount rate, the change in net periodic pension cost arising from an increase in the assumed discount rate by 100 basis points would not be expected to equal the change in net periodic pension cost arising from a decrease in the assumed discount rate by 100 basis points. 98 Table of Contents At December 31, 2010, we changed our method for determining the discount rate from a yield curve cashflow matching approach to a bond selection/settlement approach. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the December 31, 2010 methodology. For a discussion of our expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate for our qualified pension plan in 2011, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment Corporate and Other. In addition to the effect of changes in our assumptions, the net periodic cost or benefit from our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may change due to factors such as actual experience being different from our assumptions, special benefits to terminated employees, or changes in benefits provided under the plans. At December 31, 2010, the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement obligations to a 100 basis point change in discount rate was as follows: December 31, 2010 Increase/(Decrease) inPension Benefits Obligation Increase/(Decrease) inAccumulated PostretirementBenefits Obligation Increase in discount rate by 100 basis points (10 )% (8 )% Decrease in discount rate by 100 basis points 11 % 9 % Taxes on Income Our effective tax rate is based on income, non taxable and non deductible items, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times from the items reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the effective tax rate reflected in the financial statements is different than the actual rate applied on the tax return. Some of these differences are permanent such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as valuation of insurance reserves. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expenditures for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized in our financial statements. The application of U.S. GAAP requires us to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets and establish a valuation allowance if necessary to reduce our deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Considerable judgment is required in determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, and if so, the amount of such valuation allowance. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance we consider many factors, including: (1) the nature of the deferred tax assets and liabilities; (2) whether they are ordinary or capital; (3) in which tax jurisdictions they were generated and the timing of their reversal; (4) taxable income in prior carryback years as well as projected taxable earnings exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; (5) the length of time that carryovers can be utilized in the various taxing jurisdictions; (6) any unique tax rules that would impact the utilization of the deferred tax assets; and (7) any tax planning strategies that we would employ to avoid a tax benefit from expiring unused. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized. In 2010, the Company increased the valuation allowance against the state and local deferred tax assets for certain non insurance subsidiaries. The increase of $29 million to the valuation allowance relates to deferred tax assets established in 2010 and prior years. 99 Table of Contents Our accounting represents managements best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. Certain changes or future events, such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings and completion of tax audits could have an impact on our estimates and effective tax rate. For example, the dividends received deduction, or DRD, reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our actual tax expense and the expected amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. The U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, intend to address through regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the DRD related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. On February 14, 2011, the Obama Administration released the General Explanations of the Administrations Revenue Proposals. Although the Administration has not released proposed statutory language, one proposal would change the method used to determine the amount of the DRD. A change in the DRD, including the possible retroactive or prospective elimination of this deduction through regulation or legislation, could increase our actual tax expense and reduce our consolidated net income. U.S. GAAP prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that a company has taken or expects to take on tax returns. The application of this guidance is a two step process, the first step being recognition. We determine whether it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the tax position will be sustained upon examination. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. We measure the tax position as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. This measurement considers the amounts and probabilities of the outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate settlement using the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting date. An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by one percent of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, would have resulted in an increase or decrease in our consolidated income from continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures in 2010 of $44 million. Our liability for income taxes includes the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, interest and penalties which relate to tax years still subject to review by the IRS or other taxing authorities. Audit periods remain open for review until the statute of limitations has passed. Generally, for tax years which produce net operating losses, capital losses or tax credit carryforwards, or tax attributes, the statute of limitations does not close, to the extent of these tax attributes, until the expiration of the statute of limitations for the tax year in which they are fully utilized. The completion of review or the expiration of the statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to our liability for income taxes. The statute of limitations for the 2002 tax year expired on April 30, 2009. The statute of limitations for the 2003 tax year expired on July 31, 2009. The statute of limitations for the 2004 through 2007 tax years will expire in February 2012, unless extended. Tax years 2008 and 2009 are still open for IRS examination. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the impact in 2009 of changes to our total unrecognized tax benefits related to tax years for which the statute of limitations has expired. The Companys affiliates in Japan as well as Korea file separate tax returns and are subject to audits by the local taxing authority. The general statute of limitations for Japan and Korea are five years from when the return is filed. We do not anticipate any significant changes within the next 12 months to our total unrecognized tax benefits related to tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired. In addition, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of the status of our tax audits, including those of our international affiliates that file separate tax returns and are subject to the audits of the local taxing authority. 100 Table of Contents Reserves for Contingencies A contingency is an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty that will ultimately be resolved upon the occurrence of future events. Under U.S. GAAP, reserves for contingencies are required to be established when the future event is probable and its impact can be reasonably estimated. An example is the establishment of a reserve for losses in connection with an unresolved legal matter. The initial reserve reflects managements best estimate of the probable cost of ultimate resolution of the matter and is revised accordingly as facts and circumstances change and, ultimately, when the matter is brought to closure. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently adopted accounting pronouncements, including the adoption of updated authoritative guidance for disclosures related to the allowance for credit losses and the credit quality of a companys financing receivable portfolio, fair value disclosures, consolidation of variable interest entities, and accounting for the transfer of financial assets. Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of newly issued accounting pronouncements. 101 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations The following table summarizes net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business for the periods presented. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Financial Services Businesses by segment: Individual Annuities $ 1,019 $ 621 $ (1,218 ) Retirement 687 376 (1,109 ) Asset Management 529 9 300 Total U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division 2,235 1,006 (2,027 ) Individual Life 461 696 (173 ) Group Insurance 193 97 138 Total U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division 654 793 (35 ) International Insurance 1,657 1,111 1,923 International Investments (5 ) (17 ) (68 ) Total International Insurance and Investments Division 1,652 1,094 1,855 Corporate and Other (844 ) (861 ) (1,035 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services Businesses 3,697 2,032 (1,242 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 1,065 139 (510 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for Financial Services Businesses 2,632 1,893 (732 ) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes 84 1,523 (447 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations for Financial Services Businesses 2,716 3,416 (1,179 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 9 (39 ) 75 Net income (loss) Financial Services Businesses 2,725 3,377 (1,104 ) Less: Income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 11 (34 ) 36 Net income (loss) of Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. $ 2,714 $ 3,411 $ (1,140 ) Basic income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Common Stock $ 5.80 $ 7.77 $ (2.70 ) Diluted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Common Stock $ 5.73 $ 7.72 $ (2.70 ) Basic net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Common Stock $ 5.82 $ 7.68 $ (2.53 ) Diluted net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Common Stock $ 5.75 $ 7.63 $ (2.53 ) Closed Block Business: Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for Closed Block Business $ 725 $ (480 ) $ 16 Income tax expense (benefit) 245 (193 ) (7 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations for Closed Block Business 480 (287 ) 23 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 1 0 0 Net income (loss) Closed Block Business 481 (287 ) 23 Less: Income attributable to noncontrolling interests 0 0 0 Net income (loss) of Closed Block Business attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. $ 481 $ (287 ) $ 23 Basic and diluted income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Class B Stock $ 222.00 $ (165.00 ) $ (16.00 ) Basic and diluted net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. per share Class B Stock $ 222.50 $ (165.00 ) $ (16.00 ) Consolidated: Net income (loss) attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. $ 3,195 $ 3,124 $ (1,117 ) 102 Table of Contents Results of Operations Financial Services Businesses 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Income from continuing operations for the Financial Services Businesses decreased $700 million, from $3,416 million in 2009 to $2,716 million in 2010. Results in 2009 include a $1,457 million after tax gain on the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities to Wells Fargo. Absent the effect of this item, income from continuing operations for the Financial Services Businesses for 2010 increased $757 million from 2009. Results in 2010 include net pre tax gains associated with our general account portfolio and hedging programs, as compared to net pre tax losses in 2009, reflecting the impact of financial market conditions in each period. In addition, results in the current year include a net increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income, largely offset by an increase in policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, reflecting business growth, as well as the impact of currency fluctuations, in our International Insurance operations and higher life contingent structured settlement and single premium annuity sales in our retirement business. Results in 2010 and 2009 also reflect increases in other income and benefits and expenses due to changes in value of recorded assets and liabilities that are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. On a diluted per share basis, income from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for 2010 of $5.73 per share of Common Stock decreased from $7.72 per share of Common Stock for 2009. We analyze the operating performance of the segments included in the Financial Services Businesses using adjusted operating income as described in Segment Measures, below. For a discussion of our segment results on this basis, see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment, below. In addition, for a discussion of the realized investment gains (losses), net attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses, below. For additional information regarding investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments, below. The direct equity adjustment increased income from continuing operations available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes by $36 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. As described more fully in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the direct equity adjustment modifies earnings available to holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. The holders of the Common Stock will benefit from the direct equity adjustment as long as reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business are less than the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. Generally, as statutory cash premiums and policies in force in the Closed Block Business decline, we expect the benefit to the Common Stock holders from the direct equity adjustment to decline accordingly. If the reported administrative expenses of the Closed Block Business exceed the cash flows for administrative expenses determined by the policy servicing fee arrangement, the direct equity adjustment will reduce income available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations for the Financial Services Businesses increased $4,595 million, from a loss of $1,179 million in 2008 to income of $3,416 million in 2009. Results in 2009 include a $1,457 million after tax gain on the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities to Wells Fargo. Also contributing to the increase in income was a favorable variance related to adjustments to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs and the reserves for our variable annuity products, largely reflecting improved market conditions in 2009. In addition, income reflects an increase in other revenues, partially offset by an increase in benefits and expenses, due to changes in value of recorded assets and recorded liabilities that are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Results for the current year include a favorable variance in the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity products. This variance was largely driven by changes in our adjustment to the embedded derivative liabilities for market perceived non performance risk, and resulted in a related increase in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. Income also includes a net increase in premiums and policy charges and fee income, largely offset by an increase in policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, reflecting business growth, as well as the impact of currency fluctuations, in our International Insurance operations. On a diluted per share basis, income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $7.72 per share of Common Stock increased from a loss of $(2.70) per share of Common Stock for the year ended December 31, 2008. We analyze the operating performance of the segments included in the Financial Services Businesses using 103 Table of Contents adjusted operating income as described in Segment Measures, below. For a discussion of our segment results on this basis see Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment, below. In addition, for a discussion of the realized investment gains (losses), net attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses, below. For additional information regarding investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments, below. The direct equity adjustment, as described above, increased income from continuing operations available to holders of the Common Stock for earnings per share purposes by $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Results of Operations Closed Block Business 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations for the Closed Block Business for the year ended December 31, 2010, was $480 million, or $222.00 per share of Class B Stock, compared to a loss of $287 million, or $(165.00) per share of Class B Stock, for the year ended December 31, 2009. The direct equity adjustment decreased income from continuing operations available to the Class B Stock holders for earnings per share purposes by $36 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. For a discussion of the results of operations for the Closed Block Business, see Results of Operations of Closed Block Business, below. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations for the Closed Block Business for the year ended December 31, 2009, was a loss of $287 million, or $(165.00) per share of Class B Stock, compared to income of $23 million, or $(16.00) per share of Class B Stock, for the year ended December 31, 2008. The direct equity adjustment decreased income from continuing operations available to the Class B Stock holders for earnings per share purposes by $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. For a discussion of the results of operations for the Closed Block Business, see Results of Operations of Closed Block Business, below. Segment Measures In managing our business, we analyze operating performance separately for our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. For the Financial Services Businesses, we analyze our segments operating performance using adjusted operating income. Results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are evaluated and presented only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted operating income does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures or net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP but is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources, and consistent with authoritative guidance, is our measure of segment performance. The adjustments to derive adjusted operating income are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of the Financial Services Businesses. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the presentation of segment results and our definition of adjusted operating income. Effective with the third quarter of 2010, we amended our definition of adjusted operating income as it relates to certain variable annuity contracts and defined contribution accounts that contain optional guaranteed living benefit features. Changes in the fair value of these optional living benefit features, which are accounted for as embedded derivatives, are primarily driven by changes in the policyholders account balance and changes in the capital market and policyholder behavior assumptions used in the valuation of the embedded derivatives, including equity market returns, interest rates, market volatility, benefit utilization, contract lapses, contractholder mortality, and withdrawal rates. The changes in fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities 104 Table of Contents also reflect an increase or decrease in the market perceived risk of our non performance. We hedge or limit our exposure to certain risks associated with these living benefit features through a combination of product design elements and externally purchased hedging instruments. In addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2009, we expanded our hedging program to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of the variable annuity business. During the second quarter of 2010, the equity component of the capital hedge within the variable annuity business was replaced with a new capital hedge program that more broadly addressed equity market exposure of the statutory capital within the Financial Services Businesses as a whole. Changes in the value of the embedded derivatives inclusive of the market perceived risk of our non performance, and the related hedge positions are reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Historically, adjusted operating income included the changes in fair value of these embedded derivatives and related hedge positions, in the period they occurred, and also included the related impact to amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. Adjusted operating income under the amended definition excludes any amounts related to changes in the market value of the embedded derivatives and related hedge positions, and the related impact to amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. Adjusted operating income for all periods presented has been revised to conform to the amended definition. We view adjusted operating income under the amended definition as a more meaningful presentation of our results for purposes of analyzing the operating performance of, and allocating resources to, our business segments, as the amended definition presents results on a basis more consistent with the economics of the businesses. The accounting for these products and associated derivatives under U.S. GAAP has not changed. Adjusted operating income under the amended definition excludes net gains of $312 million, net gains of $2 million, and net losses of $216 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to changes in the market value of the embedded derivatives and related hedge positions, and the related impact to amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. Of the $312 million in net gains for the year ended December 31, 2010, net gains of $12 million and $2 million are reflected within the U.S. GAAP results of the Individual Annuities and Retirement segments, respectively, and net gains of $298 million are reflected within our Corporate and Other operations. Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities Operating Results The following table sets forth the Individual Annuities segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 3,195 $ 2,515 $ 2,437 Benefits and expenses 2,149 1,758 3,327 Adjusted operating income 1,046 757 (890 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 120 416 (591 ) Related charges(1)(2) (147 ) (552 ) 263 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 1,019 $ 621 $ (1,218 ) (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments. Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments include the net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions as described below. The related charges represent payments related to the market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. 105 Table of Contents (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and valuation of business acquired. In the third quarter of 2010, we amended our definition of adjusted operating income to exclude the net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions as well as market value changes of derivatives used in our capital hedge program. Adjusted operating income for all periods presented has been revised to conform with the amended definition. See Consolidated Results of Operations Segment Measures for additional information. See Net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions below for a discussion of the results of these living benefit features and related hedge positions and see Capital hedge program below for a discussion of the results of the capital hedge program included in Individual Annuities results. Adjusted Operating Income 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $289 million, from $757 million in 2009 to $1,046 million in 2010. The increase in adjusted operating income was primarily due to an increase in fee income, net of higher distribution costs, driven by higher average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts due to positive net flows and net market appreciation. Partially offsetting the increase in adjusted operating income was a $31 million lower benefit related to adjustments to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and to our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. As shown in the following table, adjusted operating income for 2010 included $348 million of benefits from these adjustments, compared to $379 million of benefits included in 2009. This variance is discussed in more detail below. Year ended December 31, 2010 Year ended December 31, 2009 Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1) Reserves forGMDB/GMIB(2) Total Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1) Reserves forGMDB/GMIB(2) Total (in millions) Quarterly market performance adjustment $ 36 $ 67 $ 103 $ 54 $ 277 $ 331 Annual review / assumption updates 165 12 177 (30 ) (19 ) (49 ) Quarterly adjustment for current period experience and other updates 23 45 68 63 34 97 Total $ 224 $ 124 $ 348 $ 87 $ 292 $ 379 (1) Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for (increases) or decreases, respectively, in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC, and other costs. (2) Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for reserve (increases) or decreases, respectively, related to the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit, or GMDB / GMIB, features of our variable annuity products. The $103 million of benefits for 2010 relating to the quarterly market performance adjustments shown in the table above are attributable to changes to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance. The following table shows the actual quarterly rate of return on variable annuity account values for the four quarters of 2010 compared to our previously expected quarterly rate of return used in our estimate of total gross profits. First Quarter2010 Second Quarter2010 Third Quarter2010 Fourth Quarter2010 Actual rate of return 3.4 % (5.2 )% 8.1 % 6.0 % Expected rate of return 2.0 % 1.9 % 2.1 % 1.9 % Actual returns exceeded our expected returns for 2010 which increased our estimates of total gross profits and decreased our estimate of future expected claims costs associated with the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, by establishing a new, higher starting point for the 106 Table of Contents variable annuity account values used in estimating those items for future periods. The expected rates of return in 2010 for some contract groups were based upon our maximum future rate of return under the reversion to the mean approach, as discussed below. The overall increase in our estimate of total gross profits and decrease in our estimate of future expected claims costs results in a lower required rate of amortization and lower required reserve provisions, which are applied to all prior periods. The resulting cumulative adjustment to prior amortization and reserve provisions was a $103 million benefit for 2010 as shown in the table above. The $331 million of benefits for 2009 relating to the quarterly market performance adjustments is attributable to a similar impact on gross profits of market value increases in the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products, reflecting financial market conditions during the period. The benefit in 2009 is higher than that in 2010 due to a greater difference in 2009 between the actual rates of return and the expected rates of return, which are detailed further below. Also, the $54 million decrease in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs in 2009 is net of a $73 million charge to impair the entire remaining balance of valuation of business acquired, or VOBA, related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate in the second quarter of 2006. The additional charge was required in the first quarter of 2009, as the declines in estimated future gross profits related to market performance caused the present value of estimated gross profits for these contracts to fall below zero. Since the VOBA balance was completely amortized for these contracts, it cannot be reestablished for market value appreciation in subsequent periods. As discussed and shown in the table above, results for both periods also include the impact of the annual reviews of the assumptions used in the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and in our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. 2010 included $177 million of benefits from these annual reviews, primarily related to reductions in lapse rate assumptions and more favorable assumptions relating to fee income. 2009 included $49 million of charges from these annual reviews, primarily related to reductions in the future rate of return assumptions applied to the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products. Partially offsetting the impact of the updated future rate of return assumptions for 2009 were benefits related to the impact of lower mortality and higher investment spread assumptions. As mentioned above, we derive our near term future rate of return assumptions using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets are projected to grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. The near term future projected return across all contract groups is 7.1% per annum as of December 31, 2010, or 1.8% per quarter. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing through the fourth quarter of 2010, the projected near term future annual rate of return calculated using the reversion to the mean approach for some contract groups was greater than our maximum future rate of return assumption across all asset types for this business. In those cases, we utilize the maximum future rate of return over the four year period, thereby limiting the impact of the reversion to the mean on our estimate of total gross profits. The near term blended maximum future rate of return, for these impacted contract groups, under the reversion to the mean approach is 9.6% at the end of 2010. Included in the blended maximum future rate are assumptions for returns on various asset classes, including a 5.7% annual weighted average rate of return on fixed income investments and a 13% annual maximum rate of return on equity investments. Further or continued market volatility could result in additional market value changes within our separate account assets and corresponding changes to our gross profits, as well as additional adjustments to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the costs relating to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. Given that the estimates of future gross profits are based upon our maximum future rate of return assumption for some contract groups, all else being equal, future rates of return higher than the above mentioned future projected four year return of 7.1%, but less than the maximum future rate of return of 9.6%, may still result in increases in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the costs relating to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. The $68 million benefit for 2010 and the $97 million benefit for 2009 for the quarterly adjustments for current period experience and other updates shown in the table above primarily reflect the impact of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period, as well as an update for current and future expected claims costs associated with the guaranteed minimum death and 107 Table of Contents income benefit features of our variable annuity products. To the extent each periods actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change, and a cumulative adjustment to previous periods amortization, also referred to as an experience true up adjustment, may be required in the current period. This adjustment to previous periods amortization is in addition to the direct impact of actual gross profits on current period amortization and the market performance related adjustment to our estimates of gross profits for future periods. The experience true up adjustments for deferred policy acquisition and other costs for 2010 reflect a reduction in amortization due to better than expected gross profits, resulting primarily from higher than expected fee income. The adjustment for the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products in 2010 primarily reflects a reserve decrease driven by lower than expected actual contract guarantee claim costs, more favorable lapse experience, and higher than expected fee income. The experience true up adjustments for deferred policy acquisition and other costs for 2009 reflect a reduction in amortization due to better than expected gross profits. The adjustment for the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products in 2009 primarily reflects higher than expected fee income due to market value increases, partially offset by higher than expected actual contract guarantee claims costs due to lower than expected lapses. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $1,647 million, from a loss of $890 million in 2008 to income of $757 million in 2009. As shown in the following table, adjusted operating income for 2009 included $379 million of benefits related to adjustments to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and to our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, compared to $1,334 million of charges included in 2008, resulting in a $1,713 million favorable variance. Year ended December 31, 2009 Year ended December 31, 2008 Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1) Reserves forGMDB/GMIB(2) Total Amortization ofDAC and OtherCosts(1) Reserves forGMDB/GMIB(2) Total (in millions) Quarterly market performance adjustment $ 54 $ 277 $ 331 $ (576 ) $ (484 ) $ (1,060 ) Annual review/assumption updates (30 ) (19 ) (49 ) 18 (118 ) (100 ) Quarterly adjustment for current period experience and other updates 63 34 97 (81 ) (93 ) (174 ) Total $ 87 $ 292 $ 379 $ (639 ) $ (695 ) $ (1,334 ) (1) Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for (increases) or decreases, respectively, in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition, or DAC, and other costs. (2) Amounts reflect (charges) or benefits for reserve (increases) or decreases, respectively, related to the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit, or GMDB / GMIB, features of our variable annuity products. These adjustments primarily reflect the market conditions that existed in the respective periods, and the estimated impact of those market conditions on contractholder behavior, and are discussed individually in more detail below. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in fee income, driven by lower average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts. The declines in average separate account assets were due to market depreciation and transfers of balances to the general account. The transfer of balances to our general account relates to an automatic rebalancing element, also known as an asset transfer feature, in some of our optional living benefit features, which, as part of the overall product design, transferred approximately $10.5 billion out of the separate accounts and into the fixed rate account in our general account from January 1, 2008 through March 31, 2009, due to equity market declines. Subsequently, in the remainder of 2009, approximately $3.5 billion was returned from the fixed rate account in our general account to the separate accounts by operation of the automatic rebalancing element due to market improvements. Higher average annuity account values in investments backed by our general account resulting from these transfers also led to improved investment results, which offset the decrease in fee income. 108 Table of Contents The $331 million of benefits in 2009 relating to the quarterly market performance adjustments shown in the table above are attributable to changes to our estimate of total gross profits to reflect actual fund performance in 2009. The following table shows the actual quarterly rate of return on variable annuity account values for each of the quarters in 2009 compared to our previously expected quarterly rate of return used in our estimate of total gross profits. First Quarter2009 Second Quarter2009 Third Quarter2009 Fourth Quarter2009 Actual rate of return (4.5 )% 12.7 % 10.6 % 3.0 % Expected rate of return 2.5 % 2.5 % 2.4 % 2.1 % Actual returns exceeded our expected returns for 2009 which increased our estimates of total gross profits and decreased our estimate of future expected claims costs associated with the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products, by establishing a new, higher starting point for the variable annuity account values used in estimating those items for future periods. The previously expected rate of return for 2009, for most contract groups, was based upon our maximum future rate of return assumption under the reversion to the mean approach. The increase in our estimate of total gross profits and decrease in our estimate of future expected claims costs results in a lower required rate of amortization and lower required reserve provisions, which are applied to all prior periods. The resulting cumulative adjustment to prior amortization and reserve provisions are recognized in the current period. The $1,060 million charge in 2008 is attributable to a similar but opposite impact on gross profits of market value decreases in the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products, reflecting financial market conditions during the period. Included within the $576 million of increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs for 2008 is a $234 million loss recognition charge to further reduce the balance of valuation of business acquired, or VOBA, related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate. The additional charge was required in 2008 as the VOBA balance for those contracts otherwise would have been in excess of the present value of estimated future gross profits. In addition, the $54 million decrease in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs for 2009 is net of a $73 million charge to impair the entire remaining VOBA balance related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate. The additional charge was required in the first quarter of 2009, as the declines in estimated future gross profits related to market performance caused the present value of estimated gross profits for these contracts to fall below zero. Since the VOBA balance was completely impaired for these contracts, it cannot be reestablished for market value appreciation in subsequent periods. As shown in the table above, results for both periods include the impact of the annual reviews of the assumptions used in the reserve for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and in our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. 2009 included $49 million of charges from these annual reviews, primarily related to reductions in the future rate of return assumptions applied to the underlying assets associated with our variable annuity products. Partially offsetting the impact of the updated future rate of return assumptions were benefits related to the impact of lower mortality and higher investment spread assumptions. Adjusted operating income for 2008 included $100 million of charges from these annual reviews, primarily reflecting increased cost of expected income and death benefit claims due to lower expected lapse rates for policies where the current policyholder account value is below the guaranteed minimum death benefit. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience shown in the table above reflect the impact of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period, as well as an update for current and future expected claims costs associated with the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. To the extent each periods actual experience differs from the previous estimate for that period, the assumed level of total gross profits may change, and a cumulative adjustment to previous periods amortization, also referred to as an experience true up adjustment, may be required in the current period. This adjustment to previous periods amortization is in addition to the direct impact of actual gross profits on current period amortization and the market performance related adjustment to our estimates of gross profits for future periods. The experience true up adjustments for deferred policy acquisition and other costs in 2009 reflect a reduction in amortization due to better than expected gross profits. The experience true up adjustment for the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit 109 Table of Contents features of our variable annuity products in 2009 primarily reflects higher than expected fee income due to market value increases, partially offset by higher than expected actual contract guarantee claims costs due to lower than expected lapses. Less favorable than expected gross profits in 2008 were primarily due to lower than expected fee income and higher actual contract guarantee claims costs in 2008, primarily driven by unfavorable financial market conditions. Revenues 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $680 million, from $2,515 million in 2009 to $3,195 million in 2010. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income increased $703 million primarily due to higher average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts. The increase in average separate account asset balances was due to positive net flows, net market appreciation, and net transfers of balances from the general account to the separate accounts during 2010. The transfer of balances from the general account relates to both transfers from a customer elected dollar cost averaging program of approximately $2.2 billion and approximately $0.4 billion of net transfers primarily from the automatic rebalancing element, also referred to as an asset transfer feature, in some of our optional living benefit features. The automatic rebalancing element is part of the overall product design, and as a result of market improvements, transferred balances out of the fixed rate account in our general account to the separate accounts during 2010. Premiums also increased $78 million driven by an increase in annuitizations primarily from contracts with the guaranteed minimum income benefit feature. Partially offsetting the increase in revenues was a decrease in net investment income of $101 million, reflecting lower average annuity account values in the general account also resulting from transfers from the fixed rate account in the general account to the separate accounts as discussed above. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $78 million, from $2,437 million in 2008 to $2,515 million in 2009. Net investment income increased $179 million, reflecting higher average annuity account values in the general account, resulting from the transfer of balances to the fixed rate account in our general account relating to the automatic rebalancing element in some of our optional living benefit features. Partially offsetting the increase in net investment income was a decrease of $125 million in policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income driven by a decrease in fee income reflecting lower average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts. The decline in average separate account asset balances was due to net market depreciation and the transfer of balances to the fixed rate account in our general account as mentioned above. Benefits and Expenses 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $391 million, from $1,758 million in 2009 to $2,149 million in 2010. Absent the net $31 million increase related to the adjustments to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and to our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, benefits and expenses increased $360 million. Excluding these adjustments, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, increased $240 million primarily driven by higher distribution and asset management costs, reflecting higher average variable annuity asset balances invested in separate accounts and higher variable annuity sales. Interest expense also increased $53 million driven by higher intercompany borrowings to fund operating costs and new business sales. The amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, excluding the adjustments noted above, increased $36 million reflecting the impact of higher gross profits used as a basis for amortization driven by higher fee income. Excluding the adjustments noted above, insurance and annuity benefits increased $34 million driven by an increase in annuitizations primarily from contracts with the guaranteed minimum income benefit feature partially offset by lower reserves on the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features due to the impact of favorable markets on account values during 2010. Lower interest credited to policyholders account balances driven by lower average annuity account values in the fixed rate accounts of the general account was mostly offset by higher amortization of deferred sales inducements, reflecting the impact of higher gross profits primarily from fee income. 110 Table of Contents 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison Benefits and expenses decreased $1,569 million, from $3,327 million in 2008 to $1,758 million in 2009. Absent the net $1,713 million decrease related to the adjustments to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products and to our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, benefits and expenses increased $144 million. Excluding these adjustments, interest credited to policyholders account balances increased $130 million primarily reflecting higher average annuity account values in our general account, resulting from transfers relating to an automatic rebalancing element in some of our optional living benefit features, and higher amortization of deferred sales inducements, reflecting the higher rate of amortization applied to gross profits in calculating amortization for 2009, due to the negative market performance adjustments recognized during 2008. Excluding the adjustments noted above, policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, increased $129 million primarily reflecting higher actual and expected contract guarantee claims costs related to the reserves for the guaranteed minimum death and income benefit features of our variable annuity products. The amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $82 million, excluding the adjustments noted above, also reflecting the higher rate of amortization for 2009, as discussed above. Partially offsetting these increases was a $152 million decrease in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, absent the effect of the items mentioned above, and a $45 million decrease in interest expense. The decrease in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, excluding the adjustments noted above, reflects a favorable variance related to the $97 million goodwill impairment recognized in 2008, and lower amortization of VOBA subsequent to the complete impairment in the first quarter of 2009 of balances related to the variable annuity contracts acquired from Allstate, as discussed above. The decrease in interest expense reflects paydowns of intercompany debt, which were funded with affiliated capital contributions. Account Values The following table sets forth changes in account values for the individual annuity business, for the periods indicated. For our individual annuity business, assets are reported at account value, and net sales (redemptions) are gross sales minus redemptions or surrenders and withdrawals, as applicable. Gross sales do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Variable Annuities(1): Beginning total account value $ 80,519 $ 60,007 $ 80,330 Sales 21,651 16,117 10,208 Surrenders and withdrawals (6,923 ) (5,776 ) (8,000 ) Net sales 14,728 10,341 2,208 Benefit Payments (981 ) (988 ) (1,057 ) Net flows 13,747 9,353 1,151 Change in market value, interest credited and other activity(2) 9,748 12,220 (20,353 ) Policy charges (1,666 ) (1,061 ) (1,121 ) Ending total account value(3) $ 102,348 $ 80,519 $ 60,007 Fixed Annuities: Beginning total account value $ 3,452 $ 3,295 $ 3,488 Sales 103 179 121 Surrenders and withdrawals (215 ) (258 ) (276 ) Net redemptions (112 ) (79 ) (155 ) Benefit Payments (267 ) (160 ) (160 ) Net flows (379 ) (239 ) (315 ) Interest credited and other activity(2) 766 397 127 Policy charges (2 ) (1 ) (5 ) Ending total account value $ 3,837 $ 3,452 $ 3,295 (1) Variable annuities include only those sold as retail investment products. Investments sold through defined contribution plan products are included with such products within the Retirement segment. 111 Table of Contents (2) Includes cumulative reclassifications of $267 million in 2010 and $259 million in 2009 from variable annuity to fixed annuity account values to conform presentation of certain contracts in annuitization status to current reporting practices. (3) As of December 31, 2010, variable annuity account values are invested in equity funds ($56 billion or 55%), bond funds ($29 billion or 28%), market value adjusted or fixed rate accounts ($9 billion or 9%), and other ($8 billion or 8%). 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $106.2 billion as of December 31, 2010, representing an increase of $22.2 billion from December 31, 2009. The increase was driven by positive variable annuity net flows and increases in the market value of customers variable annuities due to favorable equity markets for 2010. Individual variable annuity gross sales momentum continued in 2010 as sales increased by $5.5 billion, from $16.1 billion in 2009 to $21.6 billion in 2010. The increase reflects our product strength, customer value proposition, and position as the primary provider of living benefit guarantees based on highest daily customer account value as well as the further expansion of our distribution networks. Additionally, we have benefited from some of our competitors implementing product modifications to increase pricing and scale back product features due to market disruptions in late 2008 and the first half of 2009. Although we have implemented similar modifications, we believe that our product offerings have remained competitively positioned and expect our living benefit features will provide us an attractive risk and profitability profile, as all of our currently offered optional living benefit features include the automatic rebalancing element described below. Individual variable annuity surrenders and withdrawals increased by $1.1 billion, from $5.8 billion in 2009 to $6.9 billion in 2010, reflecting the overall impact of higher account values in the current year due to market appreciation over the past twelve months. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison Total account values for fixed and variable annuities amounted to $84.0 billion as of December 31, 2009, an increase of $20.7 billion from December 31, 2008. The increase came primarily from increases in the market value of customers variable annuities due to equity market appreciation and from positive variable annuity net flows. Individual variable annuity gross sales increased by $5.9 billion, from $10.2 billion in 2008 to $16.1 billion in 2009. The increase reflects a benefit from the impact of market disruptions on some of our competitors, certain of which implemented product modifications to increase pricing and scale back product features in the second and third quarters of 2009. We also experienced increased sales in the third quarter of 2009 related to certain optional living benefit features which we previously announced would be discontinued during the third quarter of 2009. Individual variable annuity surrenders and withdrawals decreased by $2.2 billion, from $8.0 billion in 2008 to $5.8 billion in 2009, reflecting the overall impact of lower account values in the first half of 2009 due to market depreciation and lower lapses for policies where the current policyholder account value is below the guaranteed minimum death or living benefit value. Variable Annuity Net Amount at Risk As a result of the volatility and disruption in the global financial markets, in recent years we have seen significant volatility in the net amounts at risk embedded in our variable annuity products with riders that include optional living and guaranteed minimum death benefit features. The net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the guaranteed minimum benefit amount in excess of the contractholders current account balance. As part of our risk management strategy, we hedge or limit our exposure to certain of the risks associated with our variable annuity products primarily through a combination of product design elements, such as an automatic rebalancing element, and externally purchased hedging instruments. Our hedging programs are discussed below in Net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions and Capital hedge program. The rate of return we realize from our variable annuity contracts can vary by contract based on our risk management strategy, including the impact on any capital markets movements that we may hedge, the impact on that portion of our variable annuity contracts that benefit from the automatic rebalancing element, and the impact of risks that are not able to be hedged. The automatic rebalancing element, included in the design of certain optional living benefits, transfers assets between the variable investments selected by the annuity contractholder and, depending on the benefit feature, the fixed rate account in the general account or a bond portfolio within the separate account. The transfers are based on the static mathematical formula used with the particular optional benefit which considers a number of factors, including the impact of investment performance on the contractholders total account value. In general, negative investment performance may result in transfers to either the fixed rate account in the general account or a bond portfolio within the separate account, and positive investment performance may result in transfers back to 112 Table of Contents contractholder selected investments. Overall, the automatic rebalancing element is designed to help mitigate our exposure to equity market risk and market volatility. Beginning in 2009, our offerings of optional living benefit features associated with currently sold variable annuity products all include an automatic rebalancing element, and in 2009 we discontinued any new sales of optional living benefit features without an automatic rebalancing element. Variable annuity account values with living benefit features were $75.1 billion, $52.5 billion and $33.1 billion as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table sets forth the account values of our variable annuities with living benefit features and the net amounts at risk of the living benefit features split between those that include an automatic rebalancing element and those that do not, as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Account Value Net Amountat Risk Account Value Net Amountat Risk Account Value Net Amountat Risk (in millions) Automatic rebalancing element(1) $ 57,336 $ 1,217 $ 34,901 $ 1,061 $ 17,653 $ 1,328 No automatic rebalancing element 17,735 1,825 17,570 2,785 15,401 4,973 Total variable annuity account values with living benefit features $ 75,071 $ 3,042 $ 52,471 $ 3,846 $ 33,054 $ 6,301 (1) As of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, asset values that have rebalanced to the general account or a separate account bond portfolio due to the automatic rebalancing element represent 12% or $6.7 billion of the $57.3 billion total account value, 23% or $8.2 billion of the $34.9 billion total account value, and 78% or $13.8 billion of the $17.7 billion total account value, respectively. The increase in account values that included an automatic rebalancing element in 2010 compared to the prior years, reflects sales of our latest product offerings which include this feature, as well as the impact on account values of overall favorable equity markets since the prior periods. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 76% of variable annuity account values with living benefit features included an automatic rebalancing element in the product design, compared to 67% and 53% as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Favorable market conditions for the year ended December 31, 2010 drove the decrease in total net amount at risk compared to the prior years. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 40% of the net amount at risk associated with variable annuity account values with living benefit features included an automatic rebalancing element in the product design, compared to 28% as of December 31, 2009 and 21% as of December 31, 2008. Our guaranteed minimum death benefits guarantee a minimum return on the contract value or an enhanced value, if applicable, to be used solely for purposes of determining benefits payable in the event of death. All of the $75.1 billion, $52.5 billion and $33.1 billion of variable annuity account values with living benefit features as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, also contain guaranteed minimum death benefits. An additional $24.0 billion, $24.4 billion and $23.3 billion of variable annuity account values, respectively, contain guaranteed minimum death benefits, but no living benefit features. Certain account values with guaranteed minimum death benefits are affected by an automatic rebalancing element because the contractholder selected a living benefit feature which includes an automatic rebalancing element. The following table sets forth the account values of our variable annuities with guaranteed minimum death benefits and the net amount at risk of the guaranteed minimum death benefits split between those that are affected by an automatic rebalancing element and those that are not, as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Account Value Net Amountat Risk Account Value Net Amountat Risk Account Value Net Amountat Risk (in millions) Automatic rebalancing element $ 57,336 $ 592 $ 34,901 $ 800 $ 17,653 $ 1,698 No automatic rebalancing element 41,693 4,867 41,975 7,798 38,733 14,404 Total variable annuity account values with death benefit features $ 99,029 $ 5,459 $ 76,876 $ 8,598 $ 56,386 $ 16,102 113 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010 approximately 58% of variable annuity account values with guaranteed minimum death benefits were affected by an automatic rebalancing element because the contractholder selected a living benefit feature which includes an automatic rebalancing element as part of the living benefit feature design, compared to 45% and 31% as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 approximately 11% of the net amount at risk associated with variable annuity account values with guaranteed minimum death benefits were affected by an automatic rebalancing element in the product design, compared to 9% and 11% as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions As mentioned above, in addition to our automatic rebalancing element, we also manage certain risks associated with our variable annuity products through our hedging programs. In our living benefit hedging program, we purchase equity options and futures as well as interest rate derivatives to hedge certain living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives against changes in equity markets, interest rates, and market volatility. Historically, our hedging strategy sought to generally match the sensitivities of the embedded derivative liability as defined by GAAP, excluding the impact of the market perceived risk of our own non performance, with capital market derivatives and options. In the third quarter of 2010, we revised our hedging strategy as, in the low interest rate environment, we do not believe the GAAP value of the embedded derivative liability to be an appropriate measure for determining the hedge target. Our new hedge target continues to be grounded in a GAAP/capital markets valuation framework but incorporates modifications to the risk free return assumption to account for the fact that the underlying customer separate account funds which support these living benefits are invested in assets that contain risk. The modifications include the removal of a volatility risk margin embedded in the valuation technique used to fair value the embedded derivative liability under GAAP, and the inclusion of a credit spread over the risk free rate used to estimate future growth of bond investments in the customer separate account funds. This new strategy will result in differences each period between the change in the value of the embedded derivative liability as defined by GAAP and the change in the value of the hedge positions, potentially increasing volatility in GAAP earnings. In addition, consistent with sound risk management practices, we evaluate hedge levels versus our target given overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing capital market conditions and may decide to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. Because this decision is based on the overall capital considerations of the Company as a whole, the impact on results from temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition is reported through Corporate and Other operations. Historically, adjusted operating income included the net impact of both the change in fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities associated with our living benefit features and the change in fair value of the related derivative hedge positions, as well as the related impact to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. In light of managements decision to change the hedge target, as discussed above, in the third quarter of 2010, we amended our definition of adjusted operating income to exclude changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities and the related derivative hedge positions, as well as the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs. The net impact of both the change in fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities associated with our living benefit features and the change in fair value of the related derivative hedge positions are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments and the related impact to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs is included in Related charges. See Consolidated Results of Operations Segment Measures for additional information. 114 Table of Contents The following table shows the net impact of changes in the embedded derivative liabilities, as defined by GAAP, and hedge positions, as well as the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 for the Individual Annuities segment. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Decrease/(increase) in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities(1) $ 1,057 $ 3,049 $ (3,018 ) Change in fair value of hedge positions (224 ) (2,715 ) 2,494 Less: Gain/(loss) reported in Corporate and Other operations(2) 306 0 0 Subtotal 527 334 (524 ) (Increase)/decrease in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities due to updates to the assumptions used in the valuation of the liability (902 ) (110 ) 86 Decrease in the embedded derivative liabilities resulting from the impact of the market perceived risk of our own non performance(3) 412 312 0 Net benefit/(charge) from the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions(4) $ 37 $ 536 $ (438 ) Related benefit/(charge) to amortization of DAC and other costs(5) $ (4 ) $ (410 ) $ 251 Net benefit/(charge) from the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions, after the impact of DAC and other costs $ 33 $ 126 $ (187 ) (1) Represents the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative liability as defined by GAAP, excluding the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities due to updates to the assumptions used in the valuation of the liability and the impact of the market perceived risk of our own non performance. (2) Represents the impact from temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. (3) As of December 31, 2010, our adjustment for the markets perception of our own risk of non performance resulted in a $723 million decrease to the embedded derivative liability. (4) Net benefit/(charge) from the mark to market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions are excluded from adjusted operating income and included in operating results in Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments. (5) Related benefit/(charge) to amortization of DAC and other costs is excluded from adjusted operating income and included in operating results in Related charges. In 2010, the net impact from the mark to market of our embedded derivatives and related hedge positions for the Individual Annuities segment was a benefit of $37 million partially offset by a $4 million increase in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs resulting from the corresponding impact to current period gross profits. Excluding the updates of the assumptions used in the valuation of the embedded derivatives, which are discussed below, and excluding the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, the hedging activities resulted in a $527 million net benefit in 2010 for the Individual Annuities segment. $387 million of the $527 million net benefit in 2010 is attributable to the difference between the change in the target hedge liability and the change in the fair value of the liability as defined by GAAP. As described above, because the value of our new hedge target does not equal the value of embedded derivative liability as defined by GAAP, our net hedging results will be impacted each period by the difference between the changes in the two values. The remaining $140 million of the $527 million net benefit is primarily driven by results prior to the implementation of our new hedging strategy related to differences in the actual performance of the underlying separate account funds relative to the performance of the market indices we utilized as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. Given the sensitivity of the fair value of the embedded derivative to current financial market conditions as well as the new hedging strategy which targets a liability different from that defined by GAAP, differences between the fair value of the embedded derivative as defined by GAAP and related hedge positions for a given period will be largely dependent on the financial market conditions throughout the period. For additional information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with our living benefit features, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features. As shown above, the net impact from the mark to market of our embedded derivatives and related hedge positions for 2010 also includes the impact of updates to the assumptions used in the valuation of the embedded derivative liabilities resulting in a $902 million charge. This charge represents an increase to the embedded 115 Table of Contents derivative liability primarily driven by reductions in the expected lapse rate assumption based on evolving experience. Additionally, beginning in 2009, we include an adjustment to the embedded derivative liability to reflect the markets perception of our own risk of non performance. To reflect the markets perception of our own risk of non performance, we incorporate an additional spread over LIBOR into the discount rate used in the valuation of the embedded derivative liabilities. This additional spread is applied at an individual contract level and only to those embedded derivatives in a liability position and not to those in a contra liability position. For additional information regarding the methodology for calculating the impact of the market perceived risk of our non performance, see Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features. As shown in the table above, 2010 includes a $412 million benefit related to this adjustment primarily resulting from an increase in the fair value of embedded derivatives in a liability position reflecting an increase in the present value of future expected benefit payments driven by lower interest rates as well as a reduction in the expected lapse rate assumption. In 2009 and 2008, the net impact from the mark to market of our embedded derivatives and related hedge positions was a benefit of $536 million and a net charge of $438 million, respectively. A corresponding impact to current period gross profits related to these impacts led to an offsetting increase in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs of $410 million in 2009 and a decrease in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs of $251 million in 2008. Excluding the updates of the assumptions used in the valuation of the embedded derivatives, which are discussed below and excluding the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, the hedging activities resulted in a $334 million benefit in 2009 and a $524 million charge in 2008. Variances for both periods are primarily driven by differences in the actual performance of the underlying separate account funds relative to the performance of the market indices we utilize as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. As shown above, the net impact from the mark to market of our embedded derivatives and related hedge positions for 2009 and 2008 also includes the impact of updates to the assumptions used in the valuation of the embedded derivative liabilities. The charge of $110 million for 2009 represents an increase to the embedded derivative liability primarily driven by reductions in the expected lapse rate assumption based on evolving experience partially offset by a decrease in the liability driven by an update of the equity volatility assumption to better match the actual equity indices referenced. The benefit of $86 million in 2008 represents a decrease to the embedded derivative liability primarily driven by an update of the equity volatility assumption to better match the actual equity indices referenced. Additionally, beginning in 2009, we included an adjustment to the embedded derivative liability to reflect the markets perception of our own risk of non performance, as described above. 2009 includes a $312 million benefit related to this update. Capital hedge program In the second quarter of 2009, we began the expansion of our hedging program to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including the impact of certain statutory reserve exposures. These capital hedges, which primarily consisted of equity based total return swaps, were designed to partially offset changes in our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain living and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. During the second quarter of 2010, we removed the equity component of our capital hedge within the Individual Annuities segment by terminating the equity based total return swaps, as part of a new program to more broadly address the equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole, under stress scenarios. Since the new program incorporates capital implications across a number of businesses, the results of that program are reported within Corporate and Other operations. Consequently, see Corporate and Other for a discussion of the results of the current program. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries for a further discussion of the capital hedge program. The results of the Individual Annuities segment for 2010 included $21 million of mark to market losses on these capital hedges prior to their termination. The results of the Individual Annuities segment for 2009 included $180 million of mark to market losses on these capital hedges driven by favorable market conditions during the year which resulted in an increase in our capital position. The results of these hedges are included in Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments and have been excluded from adjusted operating income. See Consolidated Results of Operations Segment Measures for additional information. We continue to assess the composition of the hedging program on an ongoing basis. 116 Table of Contents Retirement Operating Results The following table sets forth the Retirement segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 5,183 $ 4,659 $ 4,859 Benefits and expenses 4,611 4,165 4,314 Adjusted operating income 572 494 545 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 262 (825 ) (1,091 ) Related charges(2) (17 ) 5 8 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3) 468 1,533 (1,364 ) Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(4) (598 ) (831 ) 793 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 687 $ 376 $ (1,109 ) (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments include the net impact of our living benefit features and related hedge positions. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on change in reserves and the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (4) Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience rated contracts. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. On October 10, 2008, we acquired MullinTBG Insurance Agency Services, LLC and related entities, or MullinTBG, a provider of executive benefit solutions and financing strategies, including nonqualified executive deferred compensation plans. The acquisition included $8.9 billion of nonqualified full service retirement account values that we administer, which are not reported on our balance sheet. In the third quarter of 2010, we amended our definition of adjusted operating income to exclude the net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions as well as market value changes of derivatives used in our capital hedge program. Adjusted operating income for all periods presented has been revised to conform with the amended definition. See Consolidated Results of Operations Segment Measures for additional information. Adjusted Operating Income 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $78 million, from $494 million in 2009 to $572 million in 2010, primarily reflecting higher asset based fee income and improved net investment spread results partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, and a less favorable benefit from reserve refinements. Each item is further discussed below. Higher asset based fees were driven by an increase in average full service fee based retirement account values and higher fee based investment only stable value account values in our institutional investment products business. The increase in average full service fee based retirement account values was driven by market appreciation and net additions. Higher fee based investment only stable value account values in our institutional investment products business were driven by net additions due to our market positioning. Improved net investment spread results were driven by lower crediting rates on general account liabilities in our full service business and increased income from equity method investments driven by mark to market gains 117 Table of Contents in 2010 compared to mark to market losses in 2009. Lower crediting rates on general account liabilities in our full service business resulted from rate resets in the third quarter of 2009 and first quarter of 2010. Our ability to maintain current net spreads in our full service business in future periods is impacted by the levels of interest rates, the pace and extent of changes in interest rates, competitor pricing, and the minimum guaranteed crediting rates on our general account stable value products. Also contributing to the increase in net investment spread results were increased net settlements on floating rate to fixed rate interest rate swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio. The increase in net swap settlements resulted from the generally favorable impact of lower interest rates on the swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio primarily for our institutional investment products business. As we continued to manage the duration gap between assets and liabilities within our risk management framework, the use of interest rate swaps to increase the duration of the investment portfolio, primarily in our institutional investment products business, grew in 2009 as the duration of the investment portfolio excluding the impact of swaps declined during 2009, relative to the liabilities, as a result of purchases of fixed income securities with shorter durations than the durations of our liabilities and higher levels of cash and short term investments. Although the notional amounts of these swaps on average for 2010 are relatively unchanged from 2009, the amounts have declined in the latter half of 2010 as lower levels of cash and short term investments and purchases of fixed income securities with durations more closely matched to our liabilities reduced the duration gap between our assets and liabilities. Future net investment spread results could be impacted if interest rates or the notional amounts of these swaps change. Partially offsetting the improvement in net investment spread results was the negative impact of a lower base of invested assets in our general account reflecting scheduled withdrawals from guaranteed investment products in our institutional investment products business partially offset by the positive impact of net additions in our structured settlement product and increases in balances in our full service general account stable value products. If we are unable to replace scheduled withdrawals of guaranteed investment products, including GICs, funding agreements, retail notes, and institutional notes, with new additions, net investment spread results in future periods may be negatively impacted. For further discussion of our sales, see Sales Results and Account Values. Partially offsetting these increases in adjusted operating income was an increase in general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, driven by expenses incurred in 2010 related to certain cost reduction initiatives. Also partially offsetting these increases in adjusted operating income was a less favorable benefit from reserve refinements, primarily due to a benefit in 2009 related to updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business. Results for both 2010 and 2009 also include the impact of an annual review of the assumptions used in our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and valuation of business acquired, as well as the impact of our quarterly adjustments to total gross profits for current period experience. Adjusted operating income for 2010 and 2009 included charges of $18 million and $3 million, respectively, from the annual reviews. The quarterly adjustments for current period experience resulted in an $11 million benefit in 2010 compared to a $5 million charge in 2009, reflecting the cumulative impact on amortization of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period. Together, these items resulted in net charges included in adjusted operating income of $7 million for 2010 and $8 million in 2009. The net charge of $7 million in 2010 was driven by changes in lapse rate and fee based profit margin assumptions which both decreased expected future gross profits. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $51 million, from $545 million in 2008 to $494 million in 2009. Results for both periods include the impact of an annual review of the assumptions used in our estimate of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and valuation of business acquired, as well as the impact of our quarterly adjustments to total gross profits for current period experience. Adjusted operating income for 2009 included a $3 million charge from the annual review, compared to a $21 million charge in 2008. The charge in 2008 primarily reflected a decrease in our estimate of future gross profits, including a decline in our asset based profit assumptions and an increase in our expense assumptions. The quarterly updates for actual experience resulted in a $5 million of charge in 2009 and a $23 million benefit in 2008, reflecting the cumulative impact on amortization of differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period. In addition, 2008 included a $29 million benefit from a reduction in the amortization of valuation of business acquired due to a cumulative adjustment relating to the calculation of actual and expected gross profits. Together, these items resulted in a net charge of $8 million in 2009 and a net benefit of $31 million in 2008. 118 Table of Contents Excluding the items discussed above, adjusted operating income decreased $12 million compared to 2008 reflecting a decrease in adjusted operating income for our institutional investment products business and relatively unchanged adjusted operating income in our full service business. The decrease in our institutional investment products business primarily reflects a less favorable benefit from reserve refinements of $44 million, primarily due to a smaller benefit in 2009 related to updates of client census data on our group annuity blocks of business, as well as less favorable case experience related to our group annuity blocks of business. Partially offsetting this decrease were improved net investment spread results and a favorable variance in the mark to market of equity investments required in certain of our separate account products. The increase in net investment spread results was primarily due to increased net settlements on interest rate swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio, and the impact of the maturity of a single large guaranteed investment contract which had an interest crediting rate substantially in excess of our general account invested asset yield. The increase in net swap settlements resulted from a higher notional amount of swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio and the generally favorable impact of lower interest rates on those swaps. As we continued to manage the duration gap between assets and liabilities within our risk management framework, the use of interest rate swaps to increase the duration of the investment portfolio grew in 2009 as the duration of the investment portfolio excluding the impact of swaps declined. The investment portfolio duration had generally declined relative to the liabilities as a result of purchases of fixed income securities with shorter duration than the duration of our liabilities and higher levels of short term investments discussed below. Partially offsetting these increases in investment results was a lower benefit from the accretion into net investment income of fixed maturity other than temporary impairments recognized in previous periods. Such accretion did not contribute to results for 2009 due to our adoption of new authoritative guidance related to fixed maturity other than temporary impairments on January 1, 2009. Also serving as partial offsets were a lower base of invested assets in our general account reflecting scheduled withdrawals of our guaranteed investment products and lower yields, including the impact of declining short term interest rates and a higher balance of investments in lower yielding assets, such as cash and short term investments, for liquidity purposes. Higher levels of short term liquidity were maintained in 2009 to provide additional capacity to address changing cash needs in light of market conditions during that period. Results of our full service business in 2009 compared to 2008 benefited from improved net investment spread results, driven by higher net yields due to the impact of lower crediting rates on general account liabilities, resulting from rate resets, as well as higher average invested assets in our general account reflecting full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account and mutual fund products to our general account stable value products. Serving to mostly offset these increases were lower asset based fees, due to a decrease in average full service fee based retirement account values, primarily resulting from equity market depreciation and full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account and mutual fund products to our general account stable value products, as well as fee concessions made to certain existing clients. Although account value declines in 2008 and early 2009 due to equity market depreciation were partially offset by large plan sales, in some instances these cases provide for more limited product offerings than existing business, and consequently a lower contribution to asset based fees. Revenues 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $524 million, from $4,659 million in 2009 to $5,183 million in 2010. Premiums increased $464 million, driven by higher life contingent structured settlement and single premium annuity sales which resulted in a corresponding increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, as discussed below. Policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income increased $131 million, primarily driven by an increase in asset based fees due to an increase in average full service fee based retirement account values and an increase in fee based investment only stable value account values in our institutional investment products business, as well as increased income from net settlements on interest rate swaps, as discussed above. Partially offsetting these increases was a $71 million decrease in net investment income, primarily reflecting a smaller base of invested assets resulting from scheduled withdrawals of our general account guaranteed investment products in our institutional investment products business, and lower portfolio yields, including lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets. Partially offsetting these declines were increases in net investment income from an increase in income on equity method investments as discussed above. 119 Table of Contents 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $200 million, from $4,859 million in 2008 to $4,659 million in 2009. Net investment income decreased $255 million, primarily reflecting lower portfolio yields, including lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and the impact of a higher balance of investments in lower yielding assets, such as cash and short term investments, for liquidity purposes, as discussed above. Also contributing to the decline in net investment income was a smaller base of invested assets related to our guaranteed investment products, due to maturities, and a lower benefit from the accretion into net investment income of fixed maturity other than temporary impairments recognized in previous periods, as discussed above. Partially offsetting these declines were increases in net investment income from a larger base of invested assets in our full service business, primarily driven by participant transfers from our equity based separate account and mutual fund products to our general account stable value products, and a favorable variance in the mark to market of equity investments required in certain of our separate account products. Partially offsetting the decline in net investment income was a $43 million increase in policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income, primarily relating to higher net settlements on interest rate swaps used to manage the duration of the investment portfolio, as discussed above. Also contributing to the increase in policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income was a $35 million increase in revenues associated with the acquired operations of MullinTBG. Partially offsetting these increases in policy charges and fee income and asset management fees and other income was a decline in asset based fees in our full service business driven by a decrease in average full service fee based retirement account values, primarily resulting from equity market depreciation and full service participant transfers from our equity based separate account and mutual fund products to our general account stable value products, as well as fee concessions made to certain existing clients, partially offset by large plan sales, as discussed above. In addition, premiums increased $12 million, driven by higher life contingent structured settlement sales, partially offset by lower single premium group annuity sales, which resulted in a corresponding increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, as discussed below. Benefits and Expenses 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $446 million, from $4,165 million in 2009 to $4,611 million in 2010. Policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, increased $468 million, primarily reflecting an increase in change in policy reserves associated with the increase in premiums and a less favorable benefit from reserve refinements, as discussed above. Also, general and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, increased $67 million primarily driven by higher commission expenses, net of capitalization, higher asset management costs due to an increase in average full service fee based retirement account values, and expenses incurred in 2010 related to certain cost reduction initiatives. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in interest credited to policyholders account balances of $73 million, primarily reflecting a smaller base of account values resulting from scheduled withdrawals of our general account guaranteed investment products in our institutional investment products business, lower crediting rates on floating rate guaranteed investment products, and lower crediting rates on full service stable value account values due to rate resets. In addition, interest expense decreased $12 million reflecting lower interest rates and lower borrowings used to support investments. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses decreased $149 million, from $4,314 million in 2008 to $4,165 million in 2009. Absent the impact of the annual reviews and other adjustments to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and valuation of business acquired discussed above, which account for a $39 million increase, benefits and expenses decreased $188 million. Interest credited to policyholders account balances decreased $237 million, primarily reflecting lower crediting rates on floating rate guaranteed investment products, the impact of maturities within our guaranteed investment products and lower crediting rates on full service stable value product liabilities due to rate resets, partially offset by the impact of higher full service general account stable value product account values due to participant transfers from equity based separate account and mutual fund products. In addition, interest expense decreased $60 million, reflecting lower interest rates and lower borrowings used to support investments. Partially offsetting these decreases, policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, increased $59 million, primarily reflecting a less favorable benefit from reserve refinements, as discussed above, and the increase in reserves associated with the increase in premiums discussed above, partially offset by lower interest on lower general account policy reserves. General and administrative expenses, net of capitalization, increased $54 million 120 Table of Contents excluding the impact of the annual reviews and other adjustments mentioned above, driven by a $39 million increase in costs related to the acquired operations of MullinTBG, as well as expenses incurred to support several large client sales, partially offset by the absence of the costs of an interim service agreement relating to the retirement business acquired from Union Bank of California, N.A. and a $12 million charge for one time costs associated with certain cost reduction programs, which were included in 2008. Sales Results and Account Values The following table shows the changes in the account values and net additions (withdrawals) of Retirement segment products for the periods indicated. Net additions (withdrawals) are deposits and sales or additions, as applicable, minus withdrawals and benefits. These concepts do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, but are used as a relevant measure of business activity. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Full Service(1): Beginning total account value $ 126,345 $ 99,738 $ 112,192 Deposits and sales 19,266 23,188 18,941 Withdrawals and benefits (16,804 ) (14,438 ) (15,051 ) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income 12,506 17,857 (25,259 ) Acquisition(2) 0 0 8,915 Ending total account value $ 141,313 $ 126,345 $ 99,738 Net additions $ 2,462 $ 8,750 $ 3,890 Institutional Investment Products(3): Beginning total account value $ 51,908 $ 50,491 $ 51,591 Additions(4) 15,298 7,786 5,738 Withdrawals and benefits(5) (6,958 ) (7,817 ) (7,392 ) Change in market value, interest credited and interest income 3,370 2,287 2,198 Other(6) 565 (839 ) (1,644 ) Ending total account value $ 64,183 $ 51,908 $ 50,491 Net additions (withdrawals) $ 8,340 $ (31 ) $ (1,654 ) (1) Ending total account value for the full service business includes assets of Prudentials retirement plan of $5.8 billion, $5.4 billion and $4.6 billion as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (2) On October 10, 2008 we acquired MullinTBG, as discussed above. (3) Ending total account value for the institutional investment products business includes assets of Prudentials retirement plan of $5.4 billion, $5.2 billion and $5.3 billion as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Ending total account value for the institutional investments products business also includes $1.5 billion as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009 related to collateralized funding agreements issued to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (FHLBNY), and $1.0 billion, $1.8 billion and $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to affiliated funding agreements issued using the proceeds from the sale of Prudential Financial retail medium term notes. For additional information regarding the FHLBNY and the retail medium term notes program see, Liquidity and Capital Resources. (4) Additions include $500 million and $700 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing transfers of externally managed client balances to accounts we manage. These additions are offset within Other, as there is no net impact on ending account values for these transfers. (5) Withdrawals and benefits include $(752) million and $(488) million for 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing transfers of client balances from accounts we managed to externally managed accounts. These withdrawals are offset within Other, as there is no net impact on ending account values for this transfer. (6) Other includes transfers from (to) the Asset Management segment of $(164) million, $(11) million and $432 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Other also includes $752 million, $(12) million and $(700) million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing net transfers of externally managed client balances from/(to) accounts we manage. These transfers are offset within Additions or Withdrawals and benefits, as there is no net impact on ending account values for this transfer. Other also includes $1,500 million for 2009 representing collateralized funding agreements issued to the FHLBNY and $(1,522) million for 2009 representing terminations of affiliated funding agreements utilizing proceeds from the issuances to FHLBNY. Remaining amounts for all periods presented primarily represent changes in asset balances for externally managed accounts. 121 Table of Contents 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service business amounted to $141.3 billion as of December 31, 2010, an increase of $15.0 billion from December 31, 2009 primarily driven by an increase in the market value of customer funds due to favorable equity markets and, to a lesser extent, net additions in 2010. Net additions decreased $6.3 billion, from $8.8 billion in 2009 to $2.5 billion in 2010, primarily reflecting lower new plan sales, as 2009 included significant large plan sales, and, to a lesser extent, higher plan lapses. New plan sales in 2010 included twelve client sales over $100 million totaling $3.3 billion compared to twelve client sales over $100 million in 2009, which totaled $7.5 billion. Account values in our institutional investment products business amounted to $64.2 billion as of December 31, 2010, an increase of $12.3 billion from December 31, 2009. The increase in account values was primarily driven by additions of fee based investment only stable value products and increases in the market value of customer funds, primarily from a decline in fixed income market yields and interest credited on general account liabilities. These increases were partially offset by declines in general account guaranteed investment product account values due to scheduled withdrawals. Net additions (withdrawals) increased $8.4 billion, from net withdrawals of $31 million in 2009 to net additions of $8.3 billion in 2010 primarily reflecting higher sales of fee based investment only stable value products and lower general account guaranteed investment product scheduled withdrawals. In addition, sales of guaranteed investment products in the institutional and retail markets continue to be negatively impacted by capital market conditions. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Account values in our full service business amounted to $126.3 billion as of December 31, 2009, an increase of $26.6 billion from December 31, 2008. The increase in account values was primarily driven by an increase in the market value of customer funds due to equity market appreciation and, to a lesser extent, by net additions. Net additions increased $4.9 billion, from $3.9 billion in 2008 to $8.8 billion in 2009, primarily reflecting higher new plan sales and, to a lesser extent, lower plan lapses. New plan sales in 2009 included twelve client sales over $100 million, totaling $7.5 billion, compared to ten client sales over $100 million in 2008, which totaled $4.5 billion. Account values in our institutional investment products business amounted to $51.9 billion as of December 31, 2009, an increase of $1.4 billion from December 31, 2008. The increase in account values was primarily driven by increases in the market value of customer funds, primarily from interest credited on general account business and credit spread tightening in the fixed income markets, partially offset by net outflows from externally managed accounts. Net withdrawals decreased $1.6 billion, from $1,654 million in 2008 to $31 million in 2009. This decrease primarily reflects higher sales of investment only, fee based stable value products, which more than offset lower sales of guaranteed investment products in the institutional and retail markets. Sales of our retail notes and institutional notes were negatively impacted by unfavorable capital markets conditions, in particular during the second half of 2008 and through 2009, reflecting the extreme stress experienced by global financial markets from the second half of 2007 through the early portion of 2009. Asset Management Operating Results The following table sets forth the Asset Management segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 1,888 $ 1,257 $ 1,686 Expenses 1,401 1,202 1,454 Adjusted operating income 487 55 232 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) 13 (32 ) 40 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(2) 29 (14 ) 28 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 529 $ 9 $ 300 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. 122 Table of Contents (2) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represent the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relate to the equity interests of minority investors. Adjusted Operating Income 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $432 million, from $55 million in 2009 to $487 million in 2010 primarily reflecting more favorable results from commercial mortgage activities and more favorable investment results from proprietary investing activities, as well as increased asset management fees. Asset management fees increased $224 million, before associated expenses, primarily from retail and institutional customer assets as a result of higher asset values due to market appreciation and positive net asset flows. Results from the segments commercial mortgage activities increased primarily driven by lower credit and valuation related charges on interim loans. Results in 2010 include $50 million of net credit and valuation related charges compared to $240 million in 2009. As of December 31, 2010, the principal balance of interim loans outstanding totaled $1.3 billion, which excludes both $29 million of commitments for future fundings that would need to be disbursed if the borrowers meet the conditions for these fundings, as well as $69 million of commercial real estate held for sale related to foreclosed interim loans. As of December 31, 2010, these interim loans outstanding had a weighted average loan to value ratio of 108%, indicating that, in aggregate, the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. As of December 31, 2010, for those loans where the loan amount is greater than the collateral value, the excess of the loan amount over the collateral value is $171 million. The interim loans had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.24 times. A stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. These loans also had an allowance for losses or credit related market value losses totaling $168 million as of December 31, 2010. Results from proprietary investing activities increased $103 million, from a loss of $70 million in 2009 to income of $33 million in 2010, primarily due to improved results in real estate and fixed income investments. Real estate proprietary investing results in 2009 reflect losses of $70 million, compared to income of $16 million in 2010, primarily reflecting the impact of declines in real estate values on co investments and seed investments in the prior year. Results in 2009 also reflect losses of $11 million in a fixed income fund compared to zero in 2010. The Asset Management segment redeemed its entire investment in the fixed income fund as of June 30, 2009. In addition, proprietary investing fixed income investment results in 2009 included impairments of $10 million on collateralized debt obligations, which as of December 31, 2010, have an amortized cost of zero. Results in 2010 also reflect an increase in performance based incentive fees primarily related to institutional real estate funds. These increases were partially offset by an increase in compensation expenses and lower income related to securities lending activities. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $177 million, from $232 million in 2008 to $55 million in 2009. Results of the segments commercial mortgage activities decreased reflecting higher credit and valuation related charges of $177 million on interim loans. Due to market conditions and the inherent risk of these loans, the underwriting of new interim loans was suspended during the third quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2009, the principal balance of interim loans outstanding totaled $1.7 billion, which excludes both $86 million of commitments for future fundings that would need to be disbursed if the borrowers meet the conditions for these fundings, as well as $59 million of commercial real estate held for sale related to foreclosed interim loans. As of December 31, 2009, these interim loans outstanding had a weighted average loan to value ratio of 112%, indicating that, in aggregate, the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. As of December 31, 2009, for those loans where the loan amount is greater than the collateral value, the excess of the loan amount over the collateral value is $264 million. These loans had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.16 times. A stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. These loans also had an allowance for losses or credit related 123 Table of Contents market value losses totaling $236 million as of December 31, 2009. Results in 2009 also reflect lower transaction and performance based incentive fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds reflecting a decline in real estate values, as well as a decrease in asset management fees primarily from retail and institutional customer assets primarily as a result of lower average asset values. In addition, results for 2009 reflect lower income related to mutual fund service fees and securities lending activities. The decrease in adjusted operating income was partially offset by more favorable results from the segments proprietary investing activities which increased $137 million, from a loss of $207 million in 2008 to a loss of $70 million in 2009, primarily within fixed income investments. Results reflect a reduction of losses in a fixed income fund which included losses of $172 million in 2008, compared to losses of $11 million in 2009. The Asset Management segment redeemed its entire investment in the fixed income fund as of June 30, 2009. Fixed income investment results in 2008 also included impairments of $40 million on collateralized debt obligations, which as of December 31, 2009 have an amortized cost of zero. Proprietary investing results for equity investments increased $33 million reflecting losses in 2008, compared to gains in 2009. In 2009, we exited several of these equity investment funds. These increases were partially offset by real estate proprietary investing which decreased $93 million primarily reflecting the impact of lower real estate values on co investments. Also, results for 2009 reflect a decrease in expenses largely related to compensation. Revenues The following tables set forth the Asset Management segments revenues, presented on a basis consistent with the table above under Operating Results, by type, asset management fees by source and assets under management for the periods indicated. In managing our business we analyze assets under management, which do not correspond to U.S. GAAP assets, because the principal source of revenues are fees based on assets under management. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Revenues by type: Asset management fees by source: Institutional customers $ 626 $ 511 $ 540 Retail customers(1) 353 268 307 General account 294 270 268 Total asset management fees 1,273 1,049 1,115 Incentive fees 71 49 71 Transaction fees 23 27 76 Proprietary investing 49 (41 ) (128 ) Commercial mortgage(2) 89 (99 ) 31 Total incentive, transaction, proprietary investing and commercial mortgage revenues 232 (64 ) 50 Service, distribution and other revenues(3) 383 272 521 Total revenues $ 1,888 $ 1,257 $ 1,686 (1) Consists of fees from: (a) individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance asset management revenues from our separate accounts; (b) funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products; and (c) third party sub advisory relationships. Revenues from fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. (2) Includes mortgage origination and spread lending revenues of our commercial mortgage origination and servicing business. (3) Includes payments from Wells Fargo under an agreement dated as of July 30, 2004 implementing arrangements with respect to money market mutual funds in connection with the combination of our retail securities brokerage and clearing operations with those of Wells Fargo. The agreement extends for ten years after termination of the Wachovia Securities joint venture, which occurred on December 31, 2009. The revenue from Wells Fargo under this agreement was $66 million in 2010, $61 million in 2009 and $55 million in 2008. 124 Table of Contents December 31, 2010 2009 (in billions) Assets Under Management (at fair market value): Institutional customers(1) $ 235.3 $ 188.4 Retail customers(2) 101.2 84.4 General account 200.8 184.0 Total $ 537.3 $ 456.8 (1) Consists of third party institutional assets and group insurance contracts. (2) Consists of: (a) individual mutual funds and both variable annuities and variable life insurance assets in our separate accounts; (b) funds invested in proprietary mutual funds through our defined contribution plan products; and (c) third party sub advisory relationships. Fixed annuities and the fixed rate options of both variable annuities and variable life insurance are included in the general account. The following table sets forth the proprietary investments of the Asset Management segment at carrying value (including the value of derivative instruments used to mitigate equity market and currency risk) by asset class and source as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Co Investments: Real Estate $ 361 $ 370 $ 221 Fixed Income 29 14 197 Seed Investments: Real Estate 251 198 345 Public Equity 119 57 252 Fixed Income 102 33 52 Loans Secured by Investor Equity Commitments or Fund Assets: Real Estate secured by Investor Equity 2 13 179 Private Equity secured by Investor Equity 14 0 0 Real Estate secured by Fund Assets 198 276 283 Total $ 1,076 $ 961 $ 1,529 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $631 million, from $1,257 million in 2009 to $1,888 million in 2010. Asset management fees increased $224 million primarily from institutional and retail customer assets as a result of higher asset values from market appreciation and positive net asset flows. Commercial mortgage revenues increased $188 million primarily reflecting lower net credit and valuation related charges on interim loans, as discussed above. Service, distribution and other revenues increased $111 million primarily from higher mutual fund service fees and assets under management, with a corresponding increase in expense. Also contributing to the increase were higher revenues in certain consolidated real estate funds, which were fully offset by higher expenses related to noncontrolling interests in these funds. Proprietary investing revenues increased $90 million reflecting improved results in real estate and fixed income investments, as discussed above. In addition, incentive fees increased $22 million primarily related to institutional real estate funds. A portion of these incentive based fees are offset in incentive compensation expense in accordance with the terms of the contractual agreements. Certain of our incentive fees continue to be subject to positive or negative future adjustment based on cumulative fund performance in relation to specified benchmarks. As of December 31, 2010, $149 million of cumulative incentive fee revenue, net of compensation, is subject to future adjustment, compared to $150 million as of December 31, 2009. Future incentive, transaction, proprietary investing and commercial mortgage revenues will be impacted by the level and diversification of our proprietary investments, the commercial real estate market, and other domestic and international market conditions. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $429 million, from $1,686 million in 2008 to $1,257 million in 2009. Service, distribution and other revenues decreased $249 million of which $97 million related to lower revenues in certain consolidated funds, which were fully offset by lower expenses related to noncontrolling interests in these funds. The remainder of the decrease in service, distribution and other revenues 125 Table of Contents includes lower mutual fund service fee revenues, partially offset by expenses as discussed below, as well as a decline in revenues related to securities lending activities. Commercial mortgage revenues decreased $130 million reflecting higher credit and valuation related charges on interim loans in 2009, as discussed above. Asset management fees decreased $66 million, primarily from the management of retail and institutional customer assets as a result of lower average asset values. In addition, transaction and incentive fees decreased $71 million primarily reflecting a decline in real estate values due to adverse real estate market conditions. A portion of these incentive based fees are offset in incentive compensation expense in accordance with the terms of the contractual agreements. Certain of our incentive fees continue to be subject to positive or negative future adjustment based on cumulative fund performance in relation to specified benchmarks. As of December, 31, 2009, $150 million of cumulative incentive fee revenue, net of compensation, is subject to future adjustment, compared to $123 million as of December 31, 2008. In 2009, adjustments of $47 million related to previously recognized incentive fees contributed to the decline in incentive fees resulting from fund performance. Proprietary investing revenues increased $87 million reflecting a decline in losses, primarily the result of lower proprietary investing balances in 2009, including the redemption of a fixed income fund and the exiting of several equity investment funds in 2009, compared to investment losses in these funds in 2008. Real estate proprietary investing revenues decreased primarily due to the impact of lower real estate values on co investments. Expenses 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $199 million, from $1,202 million in 2009 to $1,401 million in 2010 primarily driven by increased compensation costs due to higher incentive compensation, in line with increased revenues, as discussed above. In addition, expenses related to revenues associated with certain consolidated real estate funds and mutual funds services increased, as discussed above. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Expenses decreased $252 million, from $1,454 million in 2008 to $1,202 million in 2009. The decrease in expenses was driven by lower revenues, as discussed above, related to performance based incentive fees, lower revenues associated with certain consolidated funds, the decline in mutual fund service fee revenue, and lower interest costs related to our reduced proprietary investing activities. In addition, compensation costs decreased primarily due to lower incentive compensation, in line with lower revenues, as well as lower headcount. U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division Individual Life Operating Results The following table sets forth the Individual Life segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 2,815 $ 2,768 $ 2,754 Benefits and expenses 2,315 2,206 2,308 Adjusted operating income 500 562 446 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (39 ) 134 (619 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 461 $ 696 $ (173 ) (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. 126 Table of Contents Adjusted Operating Income 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $62 million, from $562 million in 2009 to $500 million in 2010. Results in 2010 included a $52 million benefit from lower amortization of net deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, as well as a decrease in reserves for the guaranteed minimum death benefit feature in certain contracts, reflecting updates of our actuarial assumptions based on an annual review, compared to a $55 million benefit from the annual review in 2009. The annual reviews cover assumptions used in our estimate of total gross profits which forms the basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves, as well as the reserve for the guaranteed minimum death benefit feature in certain contracts. Results in 2009 also included a $30 million benefit from compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute. These compensation arrangements are subject to renegotiations periodically which will affect the amount of additional compensation we are eligible to receive. The largest of these arrangements was renegotiated in 2008 and the profit opportunities were reduced significantly in 2010 and beyond resulting in a benefit of less than $1 million in 2010. Absent the effect of these items, adjusted operating income in 2010 decreased $29 million, including $33 million from mortality experience, net of reinsurance, which was slightly unfavorable relative to expected levels in the current year, compared to favorable mortality experience in the prior year. The decrease in adjusted operating income also reflects a $17 million increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, reflecting a net expense of $1 million in 2010 compared to a net benefit of $16 million in 2009, resulting from changes in our estimates of total gross profits primarily from variable products arising from separate account fund performance and policyholder experience, which are described in more detail below. This increase in amortization largely reflects the impact of equity markets on separate account fund performance in the respective periods, partially offset by the impact of policyholder persistency which in 2010 returned to levels that are more consistent with expectations. The decline in our in force block of variable life business also contributed to the decrease in adjusted operating income. Partially offsetting the decrease in adjusted operating income was higher net investment income from an increase in assets supporting our term and universal life products, growth in universal life policyholder account balances and the impact of gains in 2010 on investments in real property separate account funds compared to losses in 2009. The changes in our estimates of total gross profits arising from separate account fund performance, as discussed above, reflects the impact on our estimate of total gross profits of the difference between our actual quarterly rate of return on separate accounts compared to our previously expected quarterly rate of return. The following table shows the actual quarterly rate of return on separate accounts for the four quarters of 2010 compared to our previously expected quarterly rate of return used in our estimate of total gross profits. First Quarter2010 Second Quarter2010 Third Quarter2010 Fourth Quarter2010 Actual rate of return 3.8 % (7.4 )% 8.3 % 7.3 % Expected rate of return 2.6 % 2.6 % 2.5 % 2.2 % The overall actual rate of return on separate account funds for 2010 was higher than our expected rate of return which resulted in a net decrease in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves. The overall higher than expected market returns in 2010 resulted in an increase in total future gross profits by establishing a higher starting point for the fund balances used in estimating those profits in future periods. The increase in our estimate of total gross profits results in a lower required rate of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, partially offset by a lower required rate of amortization of unearned revenue reserves. The overall actual rate of return on separate account funds for 2009 was also higher than our expected rate of return resulting in a similar impact on gross profits and a net decrease in amortization. The benefit from lower amortization in 2009 was higher compared to 2010 due to a greater difference in 2009 between actual rates of return and expected rates of return. The previously expected separate account fund performance was based on our future rate of return assumption under the reversion to the mean approach, as discussed below. In addition, the net increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, includes the impact of variable product policyholder persistency that results in differences between actual gross profits for the period and the previously estimated expected gross profits for the period. The current period includes a benefit from lower amortization of deferred 127 Table of Contents policy acquisition costs, net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, reflecting better than expected gross profits driven by policyholder persistency which returned to levels that are more consistent with expectations, compared to an expense in 2009, reflecting a similar but opposite impact from lower than expected policyholder persistency. We derive our near term future rate of return assumptions using a reversion to the mean approach, a common industry practice. Under this approach, we consider actual returns over a period of time and initially adjust future projected returns over a four year period so that the assets grow at the long term expected rate of return for the entire period. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into the fourth quarter of 2010, the projected near term future annual rate of return calculated using the reversion to the mean approach for most variable policies was greater than our near term maximum future rate of return assumption across all asset types for this business. In those cases, we utilized the near term maximum future rate of return over the four year period, thereby limiting the impact of the reversion to the mean on our estimate of total gross profits. The near term blended maximum future rate of return under the reversion to mean approach was 9.8% for 2010. Included in the blended maximum future rate are assumptions for returns on various asset classes, including a 5.7% annual weighted average rate of return on fixed income investments and a 13% annual maximum rate of return on equity investments. As of the end of the fourth quarter of 2010, the projected near term future annual rate of return calculated using the reversion to the mean approach for most variable policies was lower than our near term maximum future rate of return assumption across all asset types for this business. In those cases, we utilized the projected near term future rate of return over the four year period which was 8.6% as of December 31, 2010. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $116 million, from $446 million in 2008 to $562 million in 2009. The increase in adjusted operating income reflects improved earnings from variable products, which benefited from lower amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization of unearned revenue reserves, driven by the impact of more favorable equity markets in 2009 on separate account fund performance. Separate account fund performance above expected levels results in an increase in total future gross profits on which the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves is based, and accordingly, lower amortization in the current period. The prior year period contained higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, net of higher amortization of unearned revenue reserves in comparison to the current year, due to actual separate account performance that was below expected levels. Results in 2009 also benefited from gains on separate account fund liquidations associated with variable policy lapses and surrenders in 2009 compared to losses on these liquidations in 2008. Due to policyholder options under some of the variable contracts, lapses may occur on a quarter lag with the market risk during this lag being borne by the Company. Partially offsetting these items was the impact on variable product profitability of a decrease in asset based fees due to lower average separate account asset balances in 2009 reflecting the impact of the unfavorable equity markets in late 2008 and early 2009, as well as expected runoff of older variable policies. More favorable mortality experience, net of reinsurance, in 2009 compared to 2008 as well as higher earnings from growth in term and universal life insurance in force also contributed to the increase in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income for 2009 also includes a benefit of $55 million from the annual review of the assumptions used in our estimate of total gross profits which forms the basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and unearned revenue reserves as well as for establishing reserves for guaranteed minimum death benefit features in certain contracts. Results for 2008 include a benefit of $79 million from the annual assumption review. In addition, results for 2009 include a $30 million benefit from compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute, while results for 2008 include a similar benefit of $53 million. These compensation arrangements are subject to renegotiation periodically which will affect the amount of additional compensation we are eligible to receive. The largest of these arrangements was revised effective in late 2008. The benefit of $55 million in 2009 related to the annual review of assumptions reflects higher investment spread assumptions and improved future mortality expectations, partially offset by updates to interest rate assumptions which increased the reserve for the guaranteed minimum death benefit features in certain contracts. In addition, the review of assumptions in 2009 reflects a reduction in our future rate of return assumption, which reduced the benefit to the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs net of related amortization on unearned revenue reserves. The benefit of $79 million in 2008 primarily reflects improved future mortality expectations. As mentioned above, we derive our near term future rate of return assumptions using a reversion to 128 Table of Contents the mean approach, a common industry practice. The near term maximum future rate of return under the reversion to mean approach was reduced in third quarter of 2009 from 10.9% to 10.1% as part of our annual assumption review. Included in this revised blended maximum future rate are assumptions for returns on various asset classes, including a 13% annual maximum rate of return on equity investments. Revenues 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $47 million, from $2,768 million in 2009 to $2,815 million in 2010. Net investment income increased $94 million, due to an increase in assets supporting our term and universal life products and growth in universal life and variable policyholder account balances due to increased policyholder deposits, as well as gains in 2010 on investments in real property separate account funds compared to losses in 2009. Premiums increased $28 million, primarily due to growth of our in force block of term insurance. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income decreased $75 million including a $31 million decrease in amortization of unearned revenue reserves due to annual reviews of assumptions, and a $30 million decrease in compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute, as discussed above. Absent these items policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income decreased $14 million, driven by a decrease in amortization of unearned revenue reserves reflecting the impact of policyholder persistency which, in 2010, returned to levels more consistent with expectations and mortality experience, partially offset by an increase in the amortization of unearned revenue reserves from the impact of less favorable market conditions on separate account fund performance in 2010. The decrease in policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income also reflected higher costs on net settlements of interest rate swaps associated with our floating rate debt due to lower interest rates in 2010, offset by lower interest expense, as discussed below, partially offset by an increase in asset management fees resulting from higher separate account fund balances. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $14 million, from $2,754 million in 2008 to $2,768 million in 2009. Premiums increased $73 million, primarily due to growth of our in force block of term insurance. Net investment income increased $60 million, reflecting higher asset balances primarily from the financing of statutory reserves required for certain term and universal life insurance policies and growth in universal life account balances due to increased policyholder deposits. Policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income decreased $119 million, including a $26 million decrease in compensation received based on multi year profitability of third party products we distribute and an increase of $11 million related to the amortization of unearned revenue reserves due to the annual review of assumptions in both periods, as discussed above. Absent these items policy charges and fees and asset management fees and other income decreased $104 million, primarily reflecting lower net settlements on interest rate swaps including those used to manage duration, lower amortization of unearned revenue reserves reflecting the impact of more favorable equity markets on variable product separate account fund performance, and lower asset based fees due to lower average separate account asset balances in 2009 reflecting the unfavorable impact of equity market performance in late 2008 and early 2009. Benefits and Expenses 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $109 million, from $2,206 million in 2009 to $2,315 million in 2010. Absent the net $28 million decrease from the impacts of the annual reviews conducted in both periods, benefits and expenses increased $137 million, from $2,331 million in 2009 to $2,468 million in 2010. Excluding the impact of the annual reviews, policyholders benefits, including interest credited to policyholders, increased $141 million due to growth in universal life and variable policyholder account balances, increases in policyholder reserves, and expected claim costs associated with growth in our in force block of term and universal life business. In addition, mortality experience was slightly unfavorable, relative to expected levels in 2010, compared to favorable mortality experience in 2009 contributing $33 million to the increase in policyholder benefits. Also excluding the impact of the annual reviews, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs increased $23 million primarily due to the less favorable impact of equity markets on separate account fund performance, partially offset by both the impact of policyholder persistency which in 2010 returned to levels more consistent with expectations, as well as mortality experience. Partially offsetting these items was a decrease in interest expense of $19 million primarily driven by a decline in interest rates on floating rate debt. This floating rate debt is swapped to a fixed rate using interest rate swaps, as discussed above. 129 Table of Contents 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses decreased $102 million, from $2,308 million in 2008 to $2,206 million in 2009. Absent the impacts of the annual reviews conducted in both periods, as discussed above, benefits and expenses decreased $137 million, from $2,468 million in 2008 to $2,331 million in 2009. On this basis, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs decreased $203 million, primarily reflecting the impact of more favorable equity markets in the second half of 2009 on variable product separate account fund performance, which was partially offset by the impact of unfavorable equity markets in late 2008 and early 2009 on variable product policy persistency in early 2009. Also on this basis, policyholders benefits, including interest credited to policyholders account balances, increased $85 million, reflecting increased policyholder reserves associated with growth in our in force block of term insurance and an increase in interest credited to policyholders account balances due to growth in universal life account balances from increased policyholder deposits, partially offset by improved mortality experience compared to 2008, relative to expected levels. Sales Results The following table sets forth individual life insurance annualized new business premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our individual life insurance business, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, because annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the business, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new business premiums include 10% of first year excess premiums and deposits. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Annualized New Business Premiums(1): Variable Life $ 23 $ 20 $ 39 Universal Life 77 113 83 Term Life 160 226 209 Total $ 260 $ 359 $ 331 Annualized new business premiums by distribution channel(1): Prudential Agents $ 84 $ 95 $ 109 Third party 176 264 222 Total $ 260 $ 359 $ 331 (1) Annualized scheduled premiums plus 10% of excess (unscheduled) and single premiums from new sales. Excludes corporate owned life insurance. 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, measured as described above, decreased $99 million, from $359 million in 2009 to $260 million in 2010. The decrease in sales is primarily due to a $66 million decrease in term life product sales and a $36 million decrease in sales of universal life products driven by lower third party distribution sales. Sales from the third party distribution channel were $88 million lower than 2009 due to lower sales of universal life and term life products, both of which were impacted by price increases implemented in 2009. Sales by Prudential Agents were $11 million lower than 2009 primarily due to lower sales of both universal life products and term life products. The number of Prudential Agents increased from 2,447 at December 31, 2009 to 2,471 at December 31, 2010. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Sales of new life insurance, measured as described above, increased $28 million, from $331 million in 2008 to $359 million in 2009. The increase in sales is primarily due to a $30 million increase in sales of universal life products and a $17 million increase in term life product sales primarily by the third party distribution channel, partially offset by a $19 million decrease in sales of variable life products primarily by Prudential Agents. Sales from the third party distribution channel were $42 million higher than 2008 due to higher sales of universal life products reflecting the impact of product repricing in the second half of 2008 as well as higher sales of term life products reflecting market disruptions for some of our competitors. In the second and fourth quarter of 2009 we increased universal life and term life prices. Sales by Prudential Agents were $14 million lower than 2008 primarily due to lower sales of variable life products which were impacted by the unfavorable market conditions experienced in late 2008 and early 2009. The number of Prudential Agents increased from 2,360 at December 31, 2008 to 2,447 at December 31, 2009. 130 Table of Contents Policy Surrender Experience The following table sets forth the individual life insurance business policy surrender experience for variable and universal life insurance, measured by cash value of surrenders, for the periods indicated. These amounts do not correspond to expenses under U.S. GAAP. In managing this business, we analyze the cash value of surrenders because it is a measure of the degree to which policyholders are maintaining their in force business with us, a driver of future profitability. Generally, our term life insurance products do not provide for cash surrender values. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 ($ in millions) Cash value of surrenders $ 697 $ 855 $ 802 Cash value of surrenders as a percentage of mean future benefit reserves, policyholders account balances, and separate account balances 3.0 % 4.2 % 3.8 % 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders decreased $158 million, from $855 million in 2009 to $697 million in 2010, as surrenders in 2010 returned to levels that are more consistent with expectations compared to 2009. The prior year reflects a greater volume of surrenders, including lapses to extended term, of variable life insurance, due primarily to market conditions at the time and policyholders electing to surrender their policies rather than make premium payments or the contractually required deposits needed to keep the policies in force. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances decreased from 4.2% in 2009 to 3.0% in 2010, driven by a decrease in the total cash value of surrenders as described above, as well as higher average account balances primarily driven by market appreciation over the past twelve months. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. The total cash value of surrenders increased $53 million, from $802 million in 2008 to $855 million in 2009, reflecting a greater volume of surrenders, primarily in the first half of 2009, including lapses to extended term, of variable life insurance, due primarily to market conditions in late 2008 and into early 2009 and policyholders electing to surrender their policies rather than make premium payments or the contractually required deposits needed to keep the policies in force. The level of surrenders as a percentage of mean future policy benefit reserves, policyholders account balances and separate account balances increased from 3.8% in 2008 to 4.2% in 2009. Group Insurance Operating Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 5,458 $ 5,285 $ 4,960 Benefits and expenses 5,243 4,954 4,620 Adjusted operating income 215 331 340 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (21 ) (227 ) (201 ) Related charges(2) (1 ) (7 ) (1 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 193 $ 97 $ 138 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent the unfavorable (favorable) impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on interest credited to policyholders account balances. 131 Table of Contents Adjusted Operating Income 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $116 million, from $331 million in 2009 to $215 million in 2010. Results reflected a net benefit of $28 million in 2010, from reserve refinements in both the group life and group disability businesses, including the impact of annual reviews, compared to a net benefit of zero in 2009. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income decreased $144 million primarily reflecting less favorable underwriting results in 2010 on group life non retrospectively experience rated business largely due to the lapse of certain business and repricing of other business up for renewal with favorable claims experience in 2009, reflecting the competitive market, as well as less favorable claims experience due to an increase in the number and severity of claims. In addition, underwriting results reflect less favorable long term disability claims experience in 2010 consistent with the economic downturn. Also contributing to the decrease in adjusted operating income were higher operating expenses primarily to support disability operations and expansion into the group dental market, and an unfavorable impact from the refinement of a premium tax estimate. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income decreased $9 million, from $340 million in 2008 to $331 million in 2009. Results for 2008 include a $20 million benefit from a premium adjustment for updated data on a large group life insurance case. Also included in results for 2008 is a $13 million benefit, as compared to a net benefit of zero in 2009, from refinements in group disability reserves as a result of annual reviews. Excluding the benefits in 2008 from the premium adjustment and annual reserve refinements, adjusted operating income increased $24 million due to improved underwriting results in 2009 in both our group life and group disability businesses primarily related to business growth, which was partially offset by a related increase in operating expenses. Revenues 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $173 million, from $5,285 million in 2009 to $5,458 million in 2010. Group life premiums and policy charges and fee income increased by $125 million, from $3,414 million in 2009 to $3,539 million in 2010, primarily reflecting higher premiums from retrospectively experience rated group life business resulting from the increase in policyholder benefits on these contracts as discussed below. Also contributing to the increase were higher premiums from non retrospectively experience rated group life business primarily reflecting growth of business in force resulting from new sales, partially offset by a decrease in premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, as well as the lapse of certain business and repricing of other business up for renewal, as discussed above. Group disability premiums and policy charges and fee income, which include long term care and dental products, increased by $25 million, from $1,121 million in 2009 to $1,146 million in 2010. This increase primarily reflects higher premiums due to growth of business in force resulting from new sales, and continued strong persistency of 92.1% in 2010 compared to 90.9% in 2009, partially offset by a decrease in premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased by $325 million, from $4,960 million in 2008 to $5,285 million in 2009. Group life premiums and policy charges and fee income, increased by $182 million, from $3,232 million in 2008 to $3,414 million in 2009. This increase primarily reflects growth of business in force resulting from new sales, and continued strong persistency of 94.3% in 2009 compared to 93.3% in 2008. Also contributing to this increase were higher premiums from retrospectively experience rated group life business resulting from the increase in policyholder benefits on these contracts, as discussed below. Partially offsetting the increase in group life premiums is the premium adjustment recorded in 2008 as discussed above. Group disability premiums and policy charges and fee income, which include long term care products, increased by $126 million, from $995 million in 2008 to $1,121 million in 2009. This increase primarily reflects growth of business in force resulting from new sales, and continued strong persistency of 90.9% in 2009 compared to 85.6% in 2008. 132 Table of Contents Benefits and Expenses The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments benefits and administrative operating expense ratios for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Benefits ratio(1): Group life 89.7 % 88.4 % 88.6 % Group disability 94.7 % 88.9 % 87.2 % Administrative operating expense ratio(2): Group life 8.8 % 9.0 % 8.6 % Group disability 21.3 % 18.3 % 19.8 % (1) Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care and dental products. (2) Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income. Group disability ratios include long term care and dental products. 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased by $289 million, from $4,954 million in 2009 to $5,243 million in 2010. This increase reflects a $242 million increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, from $4,016 million in 2009 to $4,258 million in 2010, reflecting greater benefit costs on both group life and group disability businesses. Our group life business reflected greater benefit costs from less favorable claims experience, including an increase in benefits on retrospectively experience rated business that resulted in increased premiums, partially offset by the benefit of reserve refinements in 2010 and a decrease in policyholder benefits associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties. Our group disability business also reflected less favorable claims experience, partially offset by a decrease in policyholder benefits associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses were higher operating expenses, as discussed above. The group life benefits ratio deteriorated 1.3 percentage points from 2009 to 2010, due to less favorable claims experience due to an increase in the number and severity of claims, as well as the lapse of certain business and repricing of other business up for renewal with favorable claims experience in 2009, reflecting the competitive market, partially offset by the favorable impact of the reserve refinements. The group disability benefits ratio deteriorated 5.8 percentage points from 2009 to 2010, primarily due to less favorable long term disability claims experience combined with an unfavorable impact from reserve refinements, including the impact of the annual reviews. The group life administrative operating expense ratio was relatively unchanged from 2009 to 2010. The group disability administrative operating expense ratio deteriorated 3.0 percentage points from 2009 to 2010, primarily due to higher costs to support disability operations and expansion into the group dental market, lower premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties, as well as an unfavorable impact from the refinement of a premium tax estimate. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased by $334 million, from $4,620 million in 2008 to $4,954 million in 2009. This increase reflects a $283 million increase in policyholders benefits, including the change in policy reserves, from $3,733 million in 2008 to $4,016 million in 2009, reflecting growth of business in force and greater benefits on retrospectively experience rated group life business that resulted in increased premiums as discussed above. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses were higher operating expenses primarily related to business growth, as well as a lower benefit in 2009 of the group disability reserve refinements discussed above. The group life benefits ratio was relatively unchanged from 2008 to 2009. Excluding the impact of the premium adjustment discussed above, the group life benefits ratio improved approximately 0.8 percentage points due to more favorable mortality experience. The group disability benefits ratio deteriorated 1.7 percentage points from 2008 to 2009, primarily due to the impact of annual reserve refinements as a result of annual reviews. Excluding the impact of the annual reserve refinements, the group disability benefits ratio was relatively unchanged from 2008 to 2009. The group life administrative operating expense ratio was relatively unchanged from 2008 to 2009. The group disability administrative operating expense ratio improved from 2008 to 2009, as growth in the business outpaced the related increase in operating expenses. 133 Table of Contents Sales Results The following table sets forth the Group Insurance segments annualized new business premiums for the periods indicated. In managing our group insurance business, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP, because annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the business unit, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency and aging of in force policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Annualized new business premiums(1): Group life $ 446 $ 339 $ 288 Group disability(2) 161 238 204 Total $ 607 $ 577 $ 492 (1) Amounts exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers Group Life Insurance contract and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts, and include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. (2) Includes long term care and dental products. 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums increased $30 million, from $577 million in 2009 to $607 million in 2010. Group life sales increased $107 million driven primarily by increased large case sales to new customers, partially offset by lower premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2010. Group disability sales decreased $77 million primarily due to lower sales of large case disability products to both new and existing customers, as well as a decrease in long term care sales. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Total annualized new business premiums increased $85 million, from $492 million in 2008 to $577 million in 2009. Group life sales increased $51 million driven primarily by increased large case sales to both new and existing customers, partially offset by lower premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2009. Group disability sales increased $34 million primarily due to increased sales to existing customers, partially offset by lower premiums associated with the assumption of existing liabilities from third parties during 2009. International Insurance and Investments Division Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on earnings As a U.S. based company with significant business operations outside the U.S., we seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will reduce our U.S. dollar equivalent earnings. The operations of our International Insurance and International Investments segments are subject to currency fluctuations that can materially affect their U.S. dollar earnings from period to period even if earnings on a local currency basis are relatively constant. As discussed further below, we enter into forward currency derivative contracts, as well as dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments, as part of our strategy to effectively fix the currency exchange rates for a portion of our prospective non U.S. dollar denominated earnings streams, thereby reducing earnings volatility from foreign currency exchange rate movements. Forward currency hedging program The financial results of our International Insurance segment and International Investments segment, excluding the global commodities group, for all periods presented reflect the impact of an intercompany arrangement with Corporate and Other operations pursuant to which the segments non U.S. dollar denominated earnings in all countries are translated at fixed currency exchange rates. The fixed rates are determined in connection with a currency income hedging program designed to mitigate the risk that unfavorable exchange rate changes will reduce the segments U.S. dollar equivalent earnings. Pursuant to this program, Corporate and Other operations executes forward currency contracts with third parties to sell the net exposure of projected earnings 134 Table of Contents from the hedged currency in exchange for U.S. dollars at specified exchange rates. The maturities of these contracts correspond with the future periods in which the identified non U.S. dollar denominated earnings are expected to be generated. This program is primarily associated with the International Insurance segments businesses in Japan, Korea and Taiwan and the International Investments segments businesses in Europe. During the first quarter of 2010, we discontinued our currency income hedging program associated with the International Investment segments businesses in Korea, a result of our signing of a definitive agreement to sell Prudential Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. and Prudential Asset Management Co., Ltd, which together comprise our Korean asset management operations. As a result of the agreement, we have reflected results of our Korean asset management operations, including the impact of this program, as discontinued operations for all periods reported. This transaction closed on June 1, 2010. The intercompany arrangement with Corporate and Other operations increased (decreased) revenues and adjusted operating income of each segment as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Impact on revenues and adjusted operating income: International Insurance $ (101 ) $ (37 ) $ 6 International Investments 2 2 0 Total International Insurance and Investments Division $ (99 ) $ (35 ) $ 6 Results of Corporate and Other operations include any differences between the translation adjustments recorded by the segments and the gains or losses recorded from the forward currency contracts that settled during the period, which includes the impact of any over or under hedging of actual earnings as a result of projected earnings differing from actual earnings. The net impact of this program recorded within the Corporate and Other operations were gains of $6 million, $3 million and $5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The notional amounts of these forward currency contracts were $3.0 billion and $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, of which $2.5 billion and $2.0 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to our Japanese insurance operations. Dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments In addition, our Japanese insurance operations also hold dual currency investments in the form of fixed maturities and loans. The principal of these dual currency investments are yen denominated while the related interest income is U.S. dollar denominated. These investments are the economic equivalent of exchanging what would otherwise be fixed streams of yen denominated interest income for fixed streams of U.S. dollar interest income. Our Japanese insurance operations also hold yen denominated investments that have been coupled with cross currency coupon swap agreements, creating synthetic dual currency investments. The yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate is effectively fixed, as we are obligated in future periods to exchange fixed amounts of Japanese yen interest payments generated by the yen denominated investments for U.S. dollars at the yen/U.S. dollar exchange rates specified by the cross currency coupon swap agreements. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the notional amount of these investments was &yen;357 billion, or $3.2 billion, and &yen;430 billion, or $3.8 billion, respectively, based upon the foreign currency exchange rates applicable at the time these investments were acquired. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the weighted average yield generated by these investments was 2.8%, 2.9% and 2.3%, respectively. 135 Table of Contents Presented below is the fair value of these instruments as reflected on our balance sheet at December 31: 2010 2009 (in millions) Cross currency coupon swap agreements $ (132 ) $ (66 ) Foreign exchange component of interest on dual currency investments (114 ) (100 ) Total $ (246 ) $ (166 ) The table below presents as of December 31, 2010, the yen denominated earnings subject to our dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments and the related weighted average exchange rates resulting from these investments. Year (1)Interest componentof dual currencyinvestments Cross currencycoupon swap elementof synthetic dualcurrency investments Total Yen denominatedearnings subject tothese investments Weighted averageforward exchange rate perU.S. Dollar (in billions) (Yen per $) 2011 &yen; 3.4 &yen; 3.9 &yen; 7.3 85.3 2012 3.1 2.9 6.0 83.0 2013 2.9 2.5 5.4 81.6 2014 2034 30.4 51.1 81.5 79.2 Total &yen;39.8 &yen;60.4 &yen;100.2 80.0 (1) Yen amounts are imputed from the contractual U.S. dollar denominated interest cash flows. The present value of the earnings reflected in the table above, on a U.S. dollar denominated basis, is $0.9 billion as of December 31, 2010. The table above does not reflect the forward currency income hedging program discussed above. In establishing the level of yen denominated earnings that will be hedged through the forward currency income hedging program we take into account the anticipated level of U.S. dollar denominated earnings that will be generated by dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments, as well as the anticipated level of U.S. dollar denominated earnings that will be generated by U.S. dollar denominated products and investments, which are discussed in greater detail below. Impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on equity Hedges of U.S. GAAP equity and available economic capital We also seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will reduce our U.S. dollar equivalent equity in foreign subsidiaries through various hedging strategies. We continue to refine our current capital management framework, and as we further develop this framework, or as other events occur, we may alter this strategy. Available economic capital represents the excess of the fair value of assets over the fair value of liabilities for the current in force block of business. In our Japanese insurance operations we currently seek to hedge a portion of estimated available economic capital, including the amount attributable to the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations, which totaled $5.7 billion as of December 31, 2010 excluding Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) components of equity and certain other adjustments. We hedge a portion of the estimated available economic capital in our Japanese insurance operations through a variety of instruments, including U.S. dollar denominated assets. These assets are financed with yen denominated liabilities and equity held in our Japanese insurance operations. In addition, we may also hedge estimated available economic capital using instruments held in our U.S. domiciled entities, such as U.S. dollar denominated debt that has been swapped to yen. In our Taiwan insurance operation, the U.S. GAAP equity exposure is mitigated by holding a variety of instruments, including U.S. dollar denominated investments. During 2009, we terminated our hedges of the U.S. GAAP equity exposure of our Korean operations due to a variety of considerations, including a desire to limit the potential for cash settlement outflows that would result from a strengthening Korean won. For the same reasons, during the third quarter of 2010, we also terminated our hedges of the U.S. GAAP equity exposure for all of our other foreign operations, excluding our Japan and Taiwan insurance operations. 136 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate amount of the instruments serving as hedges of our estimated available economic capital, which includes the $5.7 billion attributable to the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations discussed above, amounted to $7.0 billion, unchanged from the amount hedged as of December 31, 2009. These instruments were principally comprised of available for sale U.S. dollar denominated investments with an amortized cost of $5.6 billion and held to maturity U.S. dollar denominated investments with an amortized cost of $0.5 billion held in our Japanese insurance operations, as well as $0.8 billion of net yen denominated liabilities held in our U.S. domiciled entities, including a portion that has been converted to yen using swaps. The effects of the yen denominated liabilities are reported in Corporate and Other operations. These amounts do not reflect the forward currency income hedging program or dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments discussed above, which when added to the $7.0 billion of instruments serving as an equity hedge of a portion of the estimated available economic capital, results in a total estimated available economic capital hedge of approximately $10.4 billion as of December 31, 2010. In addition, as discussed below, we have $10.3 billion of U.S. dollar assets supporting U.S. dollar liabilities related to U.S. dollar denominated products issued by our Japanese operations, which when added to the $10.4 billion of total estimated available economic capital hedge, results in total U.S. dollar instruments of approximately $20.7 billion as of December 31, 2010. Available for sale investments under U.S. GAAP are carried at fair value with unrealized changes in fair value (except as described below for impairments), including those from changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements, recorded as unrealized gains or losses in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Changes in the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations due to foreign currency exchange rate movements are also recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a Foreign currency translation adjustments, and can serve as an offset to the unrealized changes in fair value of the available for sale investments. For the portion of available for sale investments that support our Japanese insurance operations U.S. GAAP equity this offset creates a natural equity hedge. For those U.S. dollar denominated investments, including available for sale investments, that support the portion of estimated available economic capital above our U.S. GAAP equity there is no offsetting impact to equity. In addition, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on the U.S. GAAP equity of our Japanese insurance operations is partially offset by foreign currency exchange related changes in designated Yen denominated debt and other hedging instruments held in our U.S. domiciled entities and recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a Foreign currency translation adjustments. The investments designated as held to maturity under U.S. GAAP are recorded at amortized cost on the balance sheet, but are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, with the related change in value recorded within Asset management fees and other income. The remeasurement related to the change in value for foreign currency exchange rate movements for these investments is excluded from adjusted operating income, as part of our application of the hedge of available economic capital. The U.S. dollar denominated investments that hedge a portion of our estimated available economic capital in our Japanese insurance operations pay a coupon, which is reflected within Net investment income, and, therefore, included in adjusted operating income, which is approximately 200 to 300 basis points greater than what a similar yen based investment would pay. The incremental impact of this higher yield on our U.S. dollar denominated investments, as well as our dual currency and synthetic dual currency investments discussed above, will vary over time, and is dependent on the duration of the underlying investment, as well as interest rate environments in the U.S. and Japan at the time of the investment. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Investment Results for a discussion of the investment yields generated by our Japanese insurance operations. For U.S. dollar denominated investments recorded on the books of yen based entities, foreign currency exchange movements, including those reflected in the forward curve at the time of purchase of these investments will impact their value. To the extent the value of the yen strengthens as compared to the U.S. dollar, the value of these U.S. dollar denominated investments will decrease as a result of changes in the foreign currency exchange rates. Upon the ultimate sale or maturity of the U.S. dollar denominated investments, any realized change in value related to changes in the foreign currency exchange rates will be included in Realized investment gains (losses), net within the income statement and, excluded from adjusted operating income. Similarly, other than temporary impairments on these investments may include the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which in certain circumstances will be included in Realized investment gains (losses), net within the 137 Table of Contents income statement, and, as such, excluded from adjusted operating income. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities for a discussion of our policies regarding impairments. We seek to mitigate the risk that future unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements will decrease the value of our U.S. dollar denominated investments and negatively impact the equity of our yen based entities by employing internal hedging strategies between a subsidiary of Prudential Financial and certain of our yen based entities. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries International Insurance and Investments Subsidiaries for a discussion of our internal hedging strategies. We also incorporate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on the remaining U.S. dollar denominated net asset position of our Japanese insurance operations, which primarily relates to accrued investment income, as part of our overall application of the hedge of available economic capital. These U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured for foreign currency exchange rate movements, as they are non yen denominated items on the books of yen based entities, and the related change in value is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. As these U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are included in the determination of the Japanese insurance operations level of available economic capital, we exclude all remeasurement related to these items from adjusted operating income. In addition, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our international insurance operations also had $9.7 billion and $7.7 billion, respectively, of foreign currency exposure from U.S. dollar liabilities for U.S. dollar denominated products issued by these operations. A portion of these liabilities are coinsured to our U.S. domiciled insurance operations and supported by U.S. dollar denominated assets. For the U.S. dollar liabilities retained in Japan, our Japanese operations hold U.S. dollar denominated investments, including a significant portion that are designated as available for sale, and other related U.S. dollar denominated net assets, primarily accrued investment income, to support these products. The change in value due to changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements, or remeasurement, of the related U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities associated with these products is excluded from adjusted operating income. International Insurance The results of our International Insurance operations are translated on the basis of weighted average monthly exchange rates, inclusive of the effects of the intercompany arrangement discussed above. To provide a better understanding of operating performance within the International Insurance segment, where indicated below, we have analyzed our results of operations excluding the effect of the year over year change in foreign currency exchange rates. Our results of operations excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations were derived by translating foreign currencies to U.S. dollars at uniform exchange rates for all periods presented, including for constant dollar information discussed below. The exchange rates used were Japanese yen at a rate of 92 yen per U.S. dollar and Korean won at a rate of 1190 won per U.S. dollar. In addition, for constant dollar information discussed below, activity denominated in U.S. dollars is reported based on the amounts as transacted in U.S. dollars. Annualized new business premiums presented on a constant exchange rate basis in the Sales Results section below reflect translation based on these same uniform exchange rates. 138 Table of Contents Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Insurance segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues: Life Planner operations $ 7,266 $ 6,443 $ 6,022 Gibraltar Life 4,823 4,023 3,163 12,089 10,466 9,185 Benefits and expenses: Life Planner operations 5,997 5,222 4,897 Gibraltar Life 4,035 3,401 2,541 10,032 8,623 7,438 Adjusted operating income: Life Planner operations 1,269 1,221 1,125 Gibraltar Life 788 622 622 2,057 1,843 1,747 Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (317 ) (790 ) 149 Related charges(2) (15 ) 56 27 Investment gains (losses) on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, net(3) 33 68 (370 ) Change in experience rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes(4) (33 ) (68 ) 370 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(5) (68 ) 2 0 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 1,657 $ 1,111 $ 1,923 (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related charges and adjustments. The related charges represent payments related to the market value adjustment features of certain of our annuity products and the impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of unearned revenue reserves. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges that represent the element of Dividends to policyholders that is based on a portion of certain realized investment gains required to be paid to policyholders and the impact of Realized investment gains (losses), net, on the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. (3) Revenues exclude net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (4) Benefits and expenses exclude changes in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments supporting these experience rated contracts. See Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes. (5) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before taxes and equity earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represent the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors. Acquisition of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., AIG Edison Life Insurance Company and Related Entities On February 1, 2011, Prudential Financial completed the acquisition from American International Group, Inc., or AIG, of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., or Star, AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, or Edison, and certain other AIG subsidiaries pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 between Prudential Financial and AIG. The total purchase price was approximately $4.8 billion, comprised of 139 Table of Contents approximately $4.2 billion in cash and $0.6 billion in assumed third party debt, substantially all of which is expected to be repaid, over time, with excess capital of the acquired entities. All acquired entities are Japanese corporations and their businesses are in Japan. The acquired businesses distribute individual life insurance, group life insurance, group annuities, medical insurance, and fixed annuities primarily through captive agents, independent agents, and banks. As of December 31, 2010, these businesses had approximately $174 billion face amount of in force individual insurance and approximately 7,490 captive agents. We anticipate that the invested assets attributed to these businesses will increase the invested assets of our Japanese operations by about half. The addition of these operations to our existing businesses will increase our scale in the Japanese insurance market and provide complementary distribution opportunities. We also expect these businesses to provide attractive returns primarily driven from in force business and cost synergies. Star and Edisons bank channel distribution will be transferred and integrated with Prudential Gibraltar Financial. In addition, we expect to integrate the core operations of Star and Edison, excluding their bank channel distribution, with our Gibraltar Life operations by early 2012, subject to local regulatory approvals. We expect pre tax integration costs of approximately $500 million to be incurred over a five year period, including approximately $400 million during 2011 and 2012. After the integration is completed, we expect annual cost savings of approximately $250 million. Actual integration costs may exceed, and actual costs savings may fall short of, such expectations. Acquisition of Yamato Life On May 1, 2009, our Gibraltar Life operations acquired Yamato Life, a Japanese life insurance company that declared bankruptcy in October 2008. Gibraltar Life served as the reorganization sponsor for Yamato and under the reorganization agreement acquired Yamato by contributing $72 million of capital to Yamato. Concurrent with our acquisition, substantially all of Yamatos insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These surrender charges were 20% in the first year and decline by 2% each year thereafter. Subsequent to the acquisition, we renamed the acquired company The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd, or Prudential Gibraltar Financial. Adjusted Operating Income 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from Life Planner operations increased $48 million, from $1,221 million in 2009 to $1,269 million in 2010, including a net favorable impact of $11 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating income increased $37 million primarily reflecting the growth of business in force and continued strong persistency in our Japanese Life Planner operation, partially offset by an unfavorable variance of $27 million, reflecting the impact of a $6 million net charge in 2010 and a $21 million net benefit in 2009 from reserve refinements related to the implementation of a new policy valuation system. Also impacting adjusted operating income is a $6 million lower benefit in the current year from a reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs primarily reflecting improved mortality assumptions, which benefited both periods, associated with our annual review of estimated gross profits used to amortize deferred policy acquisition costs. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income increased $166 million, from $622 million in 2009 to $788 million in 2010, including a favorable impact of $22 million from currency fluctuations. In December 2010, a consortium of investors including Prudential that holds a minority interest in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd sold approximately 16% of its holdings, which contributed a pre tax gain of $66 million to results. Prudentials participation in the consortium is viewed as part of its strategic approach to China. Absent the effect of this item and the impact of currency fluctuations, adjusted operating income increased $78 million, primarily reflecting the continued growth in our fixed annuity products, which are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and growth in protection products driven by expanding bank channel distribution, as well as a higher contribution from non coupon investments. Results for 2010 also include $11 million of expenses associated with the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses which were more than offset by a lower level of benefits and expenses including the absence of net charges of $5 million related to a 2009 guaranty fund assessment and net charges of $8 million in 2009 from unfavorable reserve refinements related to the implementation of a new policy valuation system. 140 Table of Contents In the first quarter of 2011, the consortium of investors, discussed above, sold approximately 40% of its remaining holdings in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd., which will contribute a pre tax gain of $153 million to our 2011 results. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income from Life Planner operations increased $96 million, from $1,125 million in 2008 to $1,221 million in 2009, including a net unfavorable impact of $5 million from currency fluctuations. This increase in adjusted operating income primarily reflects the continued growth of our Japanese Life Planner operation, as well as more favorable mortality experience and improved investment income margins. The improved investment income margins primarily reflect investment portfolio growth in our U.S. dollar denominated products in Japan. In addition, adjusted operating income benefited by $21 million in 2009 due to the migration to a new policy valuation system that resulted in favorable refinements in the current year. Partially offsetting these items was increased general and administrative expenses due primarily to $12 million of expenses recorded in 2009 related to an on going initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and lower costs. Gibraltar Lifes adjusted operating income was $622 million in both 2008 and 2009, with no impact from currency fluctuations. Results for 2009 benefited from $36 million of earnings from the acquired former business of Yamato Life, as discussed above. The earnings from the acquired business include approximately $19 million related to initial surrenders of policies following the restructuring of business, essentially consistent with our overall expectations. Offsetting these items is a decline in expense and other margins, which reflects higher general and administrative expenses, due primarily to $18 million of expenses recorded in 2009 related to an on going initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and lower costs. Results for 2009 also include net charges of $8 million due to the migration to a new policy valuation system that resulted in unfavorable refinements in the current period. In addition, adjusted operating income benefited in 2009 from higher earnings as a result of growth in our fixed annuity products, which are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, partially offset by a decline in investment income margins reflecting actions taken to reduce our risk exposure. Revenues 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $1,623 million, from $10,466 million in 2009 to $12,089 million in 2010, including a net favorable impact of $501 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $1,122 million, from $10,764 million in 2009 to $11,886 million in 2010. Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $823 million, from $6,443 million in 2009 to $7,266 million in 2010, including a net favorable impact of $312 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $511 million, from $6,597 million in 2009 to $7,108 million in 2010. This increase in revenues came primarily from increases in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $349 million, from $5,438 million in 2009 to $5,787 million in 2010. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $263 million, from $4,101 million in 2009 to $4,364 million in 2010, primarily reflecting growth of business in force and continued strong persistency, partially offset by a benefit recognized in the prior year from the migration to a new policy valuation system discussed above. Net investment income increased $125 million, from $1,091 million in 2009 to $1,216 million in 2010, primarily due to investment portfolio growth, partially offset by lower yields in our Japanese investment portfolio compared to the prior year. Revenues from Gibraltar Life increased $800 million, from $4,023 million in 2009 to $4,823 million in 2010, including a favorable impact of $189 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues for Gibraltar Life increased $611 million, from $4,167 million in 2009 to $4,778 million in 2010. This increase reflects a $423 million increase in premiums, from $2,911 million in 2009 to $3,334 million in 2010, as premiums benefited from $50 million of renewal premiums from the acquisition of Yamato, higher first year premiums of $229 million due to stronger sales of protection products primarily through our bank distribution channels, as well as $173 million in higher sales of single premium whole life. Partially offsetting these favorable variances in premiums was a decrease of $101 million, reflecting the completion of the special dividend arrangement in the second quarter of 2010 established as part of Gibraltar Lifes reorganization in 2001. 141 Table of Contents Substantially all of the premiums recognized as additional face amounts of insurance issued pursuant to the special dividend arrangement were offset by a corresponding charge to increase reserves for the affected policies. Also contributing to the increase in revenues is favorable investment income reflecting the continued growth of our fixed annuity products and higher other income primarily reflecting the pre tax gain of $66 million related to the partial sale of our indirect investment in China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co., Ltd discussed above. Due to the long term nature of many of the products we sell in Japan, we have historically sought to increase the duration of our Japanese yen investment portfolio by employing various strategies, including investing in longer term securities or, by entering into long duration floating to fixed interest rate swaps. These strategies better support the characteristics of our long dated product liabilities and have resulted in higher portfolio yields. Based on an evaluation of market conditions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, we terminated or offset many of these interest rate swaps in consideration of, among other things, the interest rate environment. The resulting realized investment gains from terminating or offsetting these interest rate swaps will be recognized in adjusted operating income over periods that generally approximate the expected terms of the derivatives. For 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized gains of $38 million, gains of $30 million, and losses of $14 million, respectively, in adjusted operating income related to these realized investment gains (losses). As of December 31, 2010, $712 million of deferred gains remain to be recognized in adjusted operating income over a weighted average period of 30 years. We continue to manage the interest rate risk profile of our businesses in the context of market conditions and relative opportunities, and will implement these hedging strategies to lengthen the duration of our Japanese investment portfolio as our assessment of market conditions dictates. As we do so, the impact to our portfolio yields will depend on the then current interest rate environment. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues increased $1,281 million, from $9,185 million in 2008 to $10,466 million in 2009, including a net favorable impact of $282 million relating to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $999 million, from $9,765 million in 2008 to $10,764 million in 2009. Revenues from our Life Planner operations increased $421 million, from $6,022 million in 2008 to $6,443 million in 2009, including a net favorable impact of $39 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues increased $382 million, from $6,215 million in 2008 to $6,597 million in 2009. This increase in revenues came primarily from increases in premiums and policy charges and fee income of $237 million, from $5,201 million in 2008 to $5,438 million in 2009. Premiums and policy charges and fee income from our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $199 million, from $3,902 million in 2008 to $4,101 million in 2009, primarily reflecting growth of business in force from new sales and continued strong persistency. Net investment income also increased $106 million, from $985 million in 2008 to $1,091 million in 2009, primarily due to investment portfolio growth in our U.S. dollar denominated products in Japan. Revenues from Gibraltar Life increased $860 million, from $3,163 million in 2008 to $4,023 million in 2009, including a favorable impact of $243 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, revenues for Gibraltar Life increased $617 million, from $3,550 million in 2008 to $4,167 million in 2009. This increase reflects a $489 million increase in premiums, from $2,422 million in 2008 to $2,911 million in 2009, as premiums benefited $156 million from additional face amounts of insurance issued pursuant to the final payment under a special dividend arrangement established as part of Gibraltar Lifes reorganization in 2001 for which 2008 includes no such benefit. Substantially all of the premiums recognized pursuant to the special dividend arrangement were offset by a corresponding charge to increase reserves for the affected policies. Also reflected in premiums is $97 million of renewal premiums from the acquisition of Yamato, as well as higher sales of single premium whole life during 2009. Benefits and Expenses 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $1,409 million, from $8,623 million in 2009 to $10,032 million in 2010, including a net unfavorable impact of $468 million related to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $941 million, from $8,780 million in 2009 to $9,721 million in 2010. 142 Table of Contents Benefits and expenses of our Life Planner operations increased $775 million, from $5,222 million in 2009 to $5,997 million in 2010, including a net unfavorable impact of $301 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $474 million, from $5,338 million in 2009 to $5,812 million in 2010. Benefits and expenses of our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $340 million, from $3,855 million in 2009 to $4,195 million in 2010, primarily reflecting an increase in policyholder benefits due to changes in reserves, which was driven by the growth in business in force. Included in general and administrative expenses for the Life Planner operations is $4 million of expenses, a decrease of $8 million from the prior year, related to a recently completed initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and lower costs. Gibraltar Lifes benefits and expenses increased $634 million, from $3,401 million in 2009 to $4,035 million in 2010, including an unfavorable impact of $167 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $467 million, from $3,442 million in 2009 to $3,909 million in 2010. This increase reflects an increase in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, of $383 million reflecting higher single premium whole life sales in 2010 and the acquisition of Yamato, offset by the effects of the special dividend arrangement discussed above. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses is higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to growth of our protection products and the increase in single premium whole life sales, as well as higher general and administrative expenses including $11 million of expenses associated with the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses. Included in general and administrative expenses for Gibraltar Life is $18 million of expenses, unchanged from the prior year, related to the recently completed information processes and technology systems initiative discussed above. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses increased $1,185 million, from $7,438 million in 2008 to $8,623 million in 2009, including a net unfavorable impact of $287 million related to currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $898 million, from $7,882 million in 2008 to $8,780 million in 2009. Benefits and expenses of our Life Planner operations increased $325 million, from $4,897 million in 2008 to $5,222 million in 2009, including a net unfavorable impact of $44 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $281 million, from $5,057 million in 2008 to $5,338 million in 2009. Benefits and expenses of our Japanese Life Planner operation increased $251 million, from $3,604 million in 2008 to $3,855 million in 2009, primarily reflecting an increase in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, which was driven by the growth in business in force. Also contributing to the increase in benefits and expenses was increased amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and higher general and administrative expenses primarily as a result of business growth. Reflected in the higher general and administrative expenses is $12 million of expenses recorded in 2009 for the Life Planner operations related to an on going initiative in Japan to enhance our information processes and technology systems in order to improve efficiency and lower costs. Gibraltar Lifes benefits and expenses increased $860 million, from $2,541 million in 2008 to $3,401 million in 2009, including an unfavorable impact of $243 million from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations, benefits and expenses increased $617 million, from $2,825 million in 2008 to $3,442 million in 2009. This increase reflects an increase in policyholder benefits, including changes in reserves, of $453 million reflecting the effects of the special dividend arrangement discussed above, higher single premium whole life sales in 2009, and the acquisition of Yamato. Also contributing to this increase is higher amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to the continued growth of our fixed annuity products and the increase in single premium whole life sales, as well as higher general and administrative expenses. Reflected in the higher general and administrative expenses is $18 million of expenses recorded in 2009 related to the on going initiative in Japan discussed above. Sales Results In managing our international insurance business, we analyze annualized new business premiums, which do not correspond to revenues under U.S. GAAP. Annualized new business premiums measure the current sales performance of the segment, while revenues primarily reflect the renewal persistency of policies written in prior years and net investment income, in addition to current sales. Annualized new business premiums include 10% of 143 Table of Contents first year premiums or deposits from single pay products. Annualized new business premiums on an actual and constant exchange rate basis are as follows for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Annualized new business premiums: On an actual exchange rate basis: Life Planner operations $ 964 $ 833 $ 775 Gibraltar Life 874 568 454 Total $ 1,838 $ 1,401 $ 1,229 On a constant exchange rate basis: Life Planner operations $ 933 $ 847 $ 801 Gibraltar Life 854 583 487 Total $ 1,787 $ 1,430 $ 1,288 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, annualized new business premiums increased $357 million, from $1,430 million in 2009 to $1,787 million in 2010. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations increased $86 million, primarily due to higher sales of retirement income and cancer whole life products in Japan. The number of Life Planners decreased by 44, or 1%, from 6,609 as of December 31, 2009 to 6,565 as of December 31, 2010, driven by decreases of 76 in Taiwan, 53 in Poland, and 31 in Argentina, partially offset by increases of 43 in Italy, 36 in Brazil, and 28 in Japan. Over the past twelve months, we transferred 92 Japanese Life Planners to Gibraltar, primarily in support of our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution and to service orphaned policyholders. Factoring in these transfers, the number of Japanese Life Planners would have increased by 4%, from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010. Prior to December 31, 2009, an additional 304 Japanese Life Planners were transferred to Gibraltar. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operation increased $271 million, primarily due to higher sales of protection products in our bank distribution channels and sales related to a recently introduced cancer whole life product, a portion of which were sold through other complementary distribution channels. The number of Life Advisors decreased by 117, from 6,398 as of December 31, 2009 to 6,281 as of December 31, 2010, as new hires and 22 Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar as Life Advisors over the last twelve months were offset by resignations and terminations due in part to failure to meet minimum sales production standards. The remaining Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar, as discussed above, are not considered Life Advisors. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. On a constant exchange rate basis, annualized new business premiums increased $142 million, from $1,288 million in 2008 to $1,430 million in 2009. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Life Planner operations increased $46 million, primarily due to higher sales in Korea and Taiwan mostly reflective of the improving economic environment. The increased sales in Korea also reflect higher sales in the fourth quarter in advance of price increases effective January 1, 2010. The number of Life Planners increased by 244, or 4%, from 6,365 as of December 31, 2008 to 6,609 as of December 31, 2009, driven by increases of 74 in Brazil, 63 in Taiwan, 59 in Poland, and 31 in Korea. During the same period, the number of Life Planners in Japan increased by 23, reflective of the transfer of 152 Life Planners 144 Table of Contents to Gibraltar over the last twelve months, primarily in support of our efforts to expand our bank channel distribution and to service orphaned policyholders. Factoring in these transfers, the number of Japanese Life Planners would have increased 5%, from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. Annualized new business premiums, on a constant exchange rate basis, from our Gibraltar Life operation increased $96 million, primarily due to higher sales of protection products in our bank distribution channels. The number of Life Advisors increased by 68, from 6,330 as of December 31, 2008 to 6,398 as of December 31, 2009, as new hires and 54 Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar as Life Advisors over the last twelve months were offset by resignations and terminations due in part to failure to meet minimum sales production standards. The remaining Life Planners transferred to Gibraltar, as discussed above, are not considered Life Advisors. Investment Margins and Other Profitability Factors Many of our insurance products sold in international markets provide for the buildup of cash values for the policyholder at mandated guaranteed interest rates. Authorities in some jurisdictions regulate interest rates guaranteed in our insurance contracts. The regulated guaranteed interest rates do not necessarily match the actual returns on the underlying investments. The spread between the actual investment returns and these guaranteed rates of return to the policyholder is an element of the profit or loss that we will experience on these products. With regulatory approval, guaranteed rates may be changed on new business. While these actions enhance our ability to set rates commensurate with available investment returns, the major sources of profitability on our products sold in Japan, other than those sold by Gibraltar Life, are margins on mortality, morbidity and expense charges rather than investment spreads. We base premiums and cash values in most countries in which we operate on mandated mortality and morbidity tables. Our mortality and morbidity experience in the International Insurance segment on an overall basis in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was well within our pricing assumptions and below the guaranteed levels reflected in the premiums we charge. International Investments Operating Results The following table sets forth the International Investments segments operating results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating results: Revenues $ 349 $ 301 $ 93 Expenses 303 274 453 Adjusted operating income 46 27 (360 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(1) (10 ) (3 ) 2 Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(2) (41 ) (41 ) 290 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ (5 ) $ (17 ) $ (68 ) (1) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (2) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings 145 Table of Contents of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represents the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors. On January 18, 2008, we made an additional investment of $154 million in our UBI Pramerica operating joint venture in Italy, which we account for under the equity method. This additional investment was necessary to maintain our ownership interest at 35 percent and was a result of the merger of our joint venture partner with another Italian bank, and their subsequent consolidation of their asset management companies into the UBI Pramerica joint venture. On July 1, 2008, we acquired a 40 percent interest in GAP Asset Management of Brazil, which we account for under the equity method as an operating joint venture. On May 25, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Mexican financial services group Grupo Actinver SA to sell our mutual fund and banking operations in Mexico. As a result, these operations are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented. This transaction closed on October 6, 2009. We recorded a pre tax gain on the sale of $14 million, which is also reflected in discontinued operations. This transaction did not include our insurance business, our pension fund business or our real estate investments that are located in Mexico. In February 2010, we signed a definitive agreement to sell Prudential Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. and Prudential Asset Management Co., Ltd, which together comprised our Korean asset management operations. As a result, we reflected results of our Korean asset management operations as discontinued operations for all periods presented. This transaction closed on June 1, 2010. We recorded an after tax loss on the sale of $5 million in 2010, which is also reflected in discontinued operations. Adjusted Operating Income 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $19 million, from $27 million in 2009 to $46 million in 2010. The increase in adjusted operating income primarily reflects improved results from the segments global commodities operations due to more favorable sales and trading results, partially offset by a write down of software technology in 2010. Also contributing to the increase in adjusted operating income was higher asset based fees in 2010 from the segments asset management businesses. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Adjusted operating income increased $387 million, from a loss of $360 million in 2008 to income of $27 million in 2009, primarily reflecting impairment charges of $422 million in 2008 related to goodwill and operating joint ventures in Italy, Brazil and Mexico, all associated with the segments asset management businesses, resulting from the significant deterioration in financial market conditions during the fourth quarter of 2008. Excluding these impairments, adjusted operating income decreased $39 million from the prior year. The decrease reflects lower results from the segments global commodities operations due to less favorable sales and trading results and a lower benefit from market value changes on securities relating to exchange memberships in 2009. This decrease was partially offset by a $19 million credit loss related to a brokerage client that was recorded in 2008 and higher results from the segments asset management businesses. 146 Table of Contents Corporate and Other Corporate and Other includes corporate operations, after allocations to our business segments, and real estate and relocation services. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating results: Corporate Operations: Net investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense $ (59 ) $ (54 ) $ 218 Capital debt interest expense (554 ) (495 ) (331 ) Pension income and employee benefits 204 211 273 Other corporate activities (482 ) (397 ) (366 ) Total Corporate Operations(1) (891 ) (735 ) (206 ) Real Estate and Relocation Services 20 (60 ) (189 ) Adjusted operating income (871 ) (795 ) (395 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments(2) 98 108 (466 ) Related charges(3) 2 6 (4 ) Divested businesses(4) (55 ) 2,131 (506 ) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests(5) (18 ) (2,311 ) 336 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ (844 ) $ (861 ) $ (1,035 ) (1) Includes consolidating adjustments. (2) Revenues exclude Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. (3) Benefits and expenses exclude related charges which represent consolidating adjustments. (4) See Divested Businesses. (5) Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures are included in adjusted operating income but excluded from income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis on an after tax basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are excluded from adjusted operating income but included in income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures as they are reflected on a U.S. GAAP basis as a separate line in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represents the portion of earnings from consolidated entities that relates to the equity interests of minority investors. In the third quarter of 2010, we amended our definition of adjusted operating income to exclude the net impact of embedded derivatives related to our living benefit features and related hedge positions as well as market value changes of derivatives used in our capital hedge program. Adjusted operating income for all periods presented has been revised to conform with the amended definition. See Consolidated Results of Operations Segment Measures for additional information. 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. The loss from Corporate and Other operations, on an adjusted operating income basis, increased $76 million, from $795 million in 2009 to $871 million in 2010. The loss from corporate operations increased $156 million, from $735 million in 2009 to $891 million in 2010. Capital debt interest expense increased $59 million due to a greater level of capital debt, which includes the issuance in September 2009 of $500 million of exchangeable surplus notes, and reflects the use of a portion of the proceeds from prior sales of retail medium term notes for general corporate purposes beginning in the second quarter of 2009, as well as the deployment of additional corporate borrowings for capital purposes. Investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense, decreased $5 million. Higher levels of short term liquidity have been maintained throughout 2009 and 2010 to provide additional flexibility to address our cash needs in view of changing financial market conditions. The need to hold higher levels of short term liquidity, coupled with a portion of the proceeds from the sale at the end of 2009 of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities, will result in higher than historical levels of cash and short term investments in Corporate and Other until such time as capital is deployed to our business segments or invested longer term. On February 1, 2011, we used a portion of this cash and short term investments to partially fund the purchase price for the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional details. 147 Table of Contents Net investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense was also impacted by our repurchase of substantially all of our convertible senior notes during 2009. Also contributing to the greater loss from corporate operations in 2010 compared to the prior year are greater net charges from other corporate activities, primarily reflecting less favorable results from corporate hedging activities, increased corporate advertising expenses and other retained corporate expenses. Results from corporate operations pension income and employee benefits decreased $7 million. The decrease reflects increases in employee benefits costs partially offset by an increase in income from our qualified pension plan. Income from our qualified pension plan increased $13 million, from $308 million in 2009 to $321 million in 2010. For purposes of calculating pension income from our own qualified pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2011, we will decrease the discount rate to 5.60% from 5.75% in 2010. The expected rate of return on plan assets will decrease to 7.00% in 2011 from 7.50% in 2010 and the assumed rate of increase in compensation will remain unchanged at 4.5%. We determined our expected rate of return on plan assets based upon a building block approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance and the effect of rebalancing for the equity, debt and real estate asset mix applied on a weighted average basis to our pension asset portfolio. Giving effect to the foregoing assumptions and other factors, we expect on a consolidated basis income from our own qualified pension plan will continue to contribute to adjusted operating income in 2011, but at a level of about $25 million to $35 million lower than that of the year 2010. Other postretirement benefit expenses will increase in a range of $2 million to $5 million. The increase is driven primarily by the change in the expected rate of return on plan assets from 7.50% to 7.00%, demographic updates, and a change in the discount rate from 5.50% to 5.35%. These changes are partially offset by an increase in actual returns on plan assets. In 2011, pension and other postretirement benefit service costs related to active employees will continue to be allocated to our business segments. Adjusted operating income of our real estate and relocation services business increased $80 million, from a loss of $60 million in 2009 to income of $20 million in 2010. The increase in adjusted operating income reflects higher relocation transaction volume and higher real estate average home sale prices, as well as lower operating expenses in 2010 compared to the prior year. In addition, results include our share of the earnings from equity method investments, which included goodwill impairments recorded in 2009 within these entities. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. The loss from corporate and other operations, on an adjusted operating income basis, increased $400 million, from $395 million in 2008 to $795 million in 2009. The loss from corporate operations increased $529 million, from $206 million in 2008 to $735 million in 2009. Investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense, decreased $272 million, primarily reflecting lower earnings from the investment of proceeds from our debt issuances, and other borrowings, which are invested in cash and short term investments, as well as lower yields on cash equivalents. Higher levels of short term liquidity have been maintained in 2009 to provide additional flexibility to address changing cash needs in view of volatile financial market conditions. Investment income, net of interest expense, excluding capital debt interest expense was also impacted by our repurchase, since December 2008, of substantially all of our convertible senior notes, the proceeds of which had been invested primarily in short term investments, as well as lower earnings on other invested assets. Capital debt interest expense increased $164 million due to a greater level of capital debt, which includes the issuance in June 2008 of $1.5 billion of junior subordinated notes and reflects the use of a portion of the proceeds from prior sales of retail medium term notes for general corporate purposes in 2009. Previously, these proceeds were used to support an asset portfolio within the Retirement segment for which the Company has employed a substitute funding source, as discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing Activities. Also contributing to the greater loss from corporate operations in 2009 are increased losses from other corporate activities, which reflects an increase in our deferred compensation liabilities and other retained corporate expenses. The increased losses were partially offset by a decline in the level of costs related to our retained obligations to certain policyholders with whom we had previously agreed to provide insurance for reduced or no premium in accordance with contractual settlements related to prior individual life sales practice remediation. Both our deferred compensation liabilities and our retained obligations to certain policyholders are impacted by financial market conditions. 148 Table of Contents Corporate operations pension income and employee benefits decreased $62 million. The decrease reflects increased post retirement benefit costs due to the amortization of prior year losses and lower investment returns due to the lower asset base reflective of market conditions in late 2008 and early 2009, partially offset by an increase in income from our qualified pension plan. Income from our qualified pension plan increased $18 million, from $290 million in 2008 to $308 million in 2009. The loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of our real estate and relocation services business decreased $129 million, from $189 million in 2008 to $60 million in 2009. Results in 2008 include a goodwill impairment of $117 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2008. This impairment, which was all of the goodwill associated with this business, was reflective of the further deterioration of the U.S. housing market that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008 and our view of the timing of the future recovery of this market, which resulted in a decrease in the expected future earnings of this business. Excluding this impairment, the loss decreased $12 million, reflecting lower loan loss provisions and lower operating expenses, partially offset by lower royalty fees and lower relocation revenue from real estate referral fees primarily due to unfavorable residential real estate market conditions. Results for 2009 also include our share of the earnings from equity method investments, which include goodwill impairments recorded in 2009 within these entities. Capital hedge program Corporate and Other operations includes the results of our capital hedge program which broadly addresses the equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole, under stress scenarios, as described under Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the result of this hedge was a loss of $15 million, of which $7 million reflects market value changes of derivatives included in Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments. In addition, we manage certain risks associated with our variable annuity products through our living benefit hedging program, which is described under U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Consistent with sound risk management practices, we evaluate hedge levels versus our target given overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing capital market conditions and may decide to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. Because this decision is based on the overall capital considerations of the Company as a whole, the impact on results from temporarily hedging to an amount that differs from our target hedge definition is reported through Corporate and Other operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Realized investment gains (losses), net and related adjustments includes a gain of $306 million representing the impact of hedging to an amount that differed from our target hedge definition. We assess the composition of our hedging program on an ongoing basis, and we may change it from time to time based on our evaluation of the Companys risk position or other factors. Results of Operations of Closed Block Business We established the Closed Block Business effective as of the date of demutualization. The Closed Block Business includes our in force traditional domestic participating life insurance and annuity products and assets that are used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity and related liabilities that support these policies. We no longer offer these traditional domestic participating policies. See Overview Closed Block Business for additional details. Each year, the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance determines the dividends payable on participating policies for the following year based on the experience of the Closed Block, including investment income, net realized and unrealized investment gains, mortality experience and other factors. Although Closed Block experience for dividend action decisions is based upon statutory results, at the time the Closed Block was established, we developed, as required by U.S. GAAP, an actuarial calculation of the timing of the maximum future earnings from the policies included in the Closed Block. If actual cumulative earnings in any given period are greater than the cumulative earnings we expected, we will record this excess as a policyholder dividend 149 Table of Contents obligation. We will subsequently pay this excess to Closed Block policyholders as an additional dividend unless it is otherwise offset by future Closed Block performance that is less favorable than we originally expected. The policyholder dividends we charge to expense within the Closed Block Business will include any change in our policyholder dividend obligation that we recognize for the excess of actual cumulative earnings in any given period over the cumulative earnings we expected in addition to the actual policyholder dividends declared by the Board of Directors of Prudential Insurance. As of December 31, 2010, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $126 million, which was recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. Actual cumulative earnings, as required by U.S. GAAP, reflect the recognition of realized investment gains and losses in the current period, as well as changes in assets and related liabilities that support the Closed Block policies. Additionally, the accumulation of net unrealized investment gains that have arisen subsequent to the establishment of the Closed Block have been reflected as a policyholder dividend obligation of $2,117 million at December 31, 2010, to be paid to Closed Block policyholders unless offset by future experience, with an offsetting amount reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Operating Results Management does not consider adjusted operating income to assess the operating performance of the Closed Block Business. Consequently, results of the Closed Block Business for all periods are presented only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table sets forth the Closed Block Business U.S. GAAP results for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) U.S. GAAP results: Revenues $ 7,086 $ 5,245 $ 7,059 Benefits and expenses 6,361 5,725 7,043 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures $ 725 $ (480 ) $ 16 Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of Operating Joint Ventures 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures increased $1,205 million, from a loss of $480 million in 2009 to income of $725 million in 2010. Results for 2010 include an increase of $2,079 million in net realized investment gains (losses), from losses of $1,285 million in 2009 to gains of $794 million in 2010, primarily due to lower impairments and credit losses, as well as a net increase in the market value of derivatives used in duration management programs. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Net investment income, net of interest expense, increased $67 million, primarily due to an increase in income on joint ventures and limited partnership investments accounted for under the equity method, partially offset by lower portfolio yields. In addition, dividends paid and accrued to policyholders decreased primarily due to a decrease in the 2010 dividend scale. The impact of these items contributed to the actual cumulative earnings which, when compared to the expected cumulative earnings, resulted in an increase in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $977 million, from 2009 compared to 2010. As noted above, as of December 31, 2010, the excess of actual cumulative earnings over the expected cumulative earnings was $126 million. If actual cumulative earnings fall below expected cumulative earnings in future periods, earnings volatility in the Closed Block Business, which is primarily due to changes in investment results, may not be offset by changes in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures decreased $496 million, from income of $16 million in 2008 to a 150 Table of Contents loss of $480 million in 2009. Results for 2009 include a decrease of $1,300 million in net realized investment gains (losses), from gains of $15 million in 2008 to losses of $1,285 million in 2009, primarily due to a net decrease in the market value of derivatives used in duration management programs. For a discussion of Closed Block Business realized investment gains (losses), net, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Net investment income, net of interest expense, decreased $199 million, primarily related to lower portfolio yields, including lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and reinvestments at lower yields, as well as a decrease in income on joint ventures and limited partnership investments accounted for under the equity method. These decreases to income were partially offset by a decrease of $348 million in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders, primarily due to a decrease in the dividend scales for 2009 and 2010. In addition, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs decreased $46 million reflecting the impact of investment losses on actual gross margins for the period compared to the previously estimated expected gross margins for the period. During 2009, the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation was reduced from $851 million to zero, and was a partial offset to the decline in earnings as discussed above. In 2008, the change in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation of $299 million was an offset to the decline in earnings in the period. As of December 31, 2009, actual cumulative earnings were below the expected cumulative earnings by $601 million. There will be no cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation until this amount is recovered. Revenues 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Revenues, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $1,841 million, from $5,245 million in 2009 to $7,086 million in 2010, principally driven by the $2,079 million increase in net realized investment gains (losses) and an increase of $69 million in net investment income, as discussed above. Partially offsetting these items was a decline in premiums, with a related decrease in changes in reserves, primarily due to a lower amount of dividends available for policyholders to purchase additional insurance, as a result of the 2010 dividend scale reduction, and to a lesser extent, the expected in force decline as policies terminate. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Revenues decreased $1,814 million, from $7,059 million in 2008 to $5,245 million in 2009, principally driven by the $1,300 million decrease in net realized investment gains (losses) and a decrease of $243 million in net investment income, as discussed above. In addition, premiums declined, with a related decrease in changes in reserves, primarily due to a lower amount of dividends used by policyholders to purchase additional insurance, as a result of the 2009 and 2010 dividend scale reductions, and to a lesser extent, the expected in force decline as policies terminate. Benefits and Expenses 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses, as shown in the table above under Operating Results, increased $636 million, from $5,725 million in 2009 to $6,361 million in 2010. This increase included an $849 million increase in dividends to policyholders reflecting an increase in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $977 million, representing an $851 million reduction in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation in 2009, compared to a $126 million increase in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation in 2010. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders of $128 million, primarily due to a decrease in the 2010 dividend scale. Policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, decreased $250 million driven by a decline in premiums, as discussed above. 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison. Benefits and expenses decreased $1,318 million, from $7,043 million in 2008 to $5,725 million in 2009. This decline included a $900 million decrease in dividends to policyholders reflecting a decrease in the cumulative earnings policyholder dividend obligation expense of $552 million, as well as a decrease in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders of $348 million, primarily due to a decrease in the dividend scales. Policyholders benefits, including changes in reserves, decreased $325 million driven by a decline in premiums, as discussed above. In addition, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs decreased reflecting the impact of investment losses on actual gross margins for the period compared to the previously estimated expected gross margins for the period. 151 Table of Contents Income Taxes Shown below is our income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, separately reflecting the impact of certain significant items. Also presented below is the income tax provision that would have resulted from application of the statutory 35% federal income tax rate in each of these periods. Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Tax provision $ 1,310 $ (54 ) $ (517 ) Impact of: Low income housing and other tax credits 58 68 82 Non taxable investment income 214 177 52 Foreign taxes at other than U.S. rate 51 15 16 State and local taxes (4 ) (2 ) 8 Change in tax rate (69 ) 0 0 Change in valuation allowance (29 ) 0 0 Non deductible expenses (10 ) 3 (1 ) Non deductible goodwill impairment 0 0 (83 ) Expiration of statute of limitations and related interest 0 272 0 Other 27 64 14 Tax provision excluding these items $ 1,548 $ 543 $ (429 ) Tax provision at statutory rate $ 1,548 $ 543 $ (429 ) Our income tax provision amounted to an income tax expense of $1,310 million in 2010 compared to a benefit of $54 million in 2009. The increase in income tax expense primarily reflects the increase in pre tax income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition, the 2009 income tax benefit included a reduction to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest of $272 million primarily related to tax years prior to 2002 as a result of the expiration of the statute of limitations for the 2002 and 2003 tax years, additional interest on a tax refund received related to the 1997 through 2001 tax years, and changes in estimates. In addition, 2010 income tax expense includes a charge for the reduction of deferred tax assets in the amount of $94 million related to the Medicare Part D subsidy and a charge of $29 million to reflect an increase in valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets established in 2010 and prior years. The change in valuation allowance in the current year reflects the Companys reassessment of the likelihood of the realization of state and local deferred tax assets for certain non insurance subsidiaries. We employ various tax strategies, including strategies to minimize the amount of taxes resulting from realized capital gains. For additional information regarding income taxes, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Discontinued Operations Included within net income are the results of businesses which are reflected as discontinued operations under U.S. GAAP. Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, was $10 million, $(39) million and $75 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For additional information regarding discontinued operations see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 152 Table of Contents Divested Businesses Our income from continuing operations includes results from several businesses that have been or will be sold or exited that do not qualify for discontinued operations accounting treatment under U.S. GAAP. The results of these divested businesses are reflected in our Corporate and Other operations, but excluded from adjusted operating income. A summary of the results of these divested businesses that have been excluded from adjusted operating income is as follows for the periods indicated: Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Financial Advisory $ (19 ) $ 2,167 $ (351 ) Property and Casualty Insurance (33 ) (21 ) 8 Commercial mortgage securitization operations 0 (12 ) (158 ) Other(1) (3 ) (3 ) (5 ) Total divested businesses excluded from adjusted operating income $ (55 ) $ 2,131 $ (506 ) (1) Primarily includes Prudential Securities Capital Markets and exchange shares previously held by Prudential Equity Group. Financial Advisory In 2008, we classified our Financial Advisory business as a divested business, reflecting our intention to exit this business. This business consists of our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture, in addition to expenses relating to obligations and costs we retained in connection with the businesses we contributed to the joint venture, primarily for litigation and regulatory matters. On December 31, 2009, we completed the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities, which includes Wells Fargo Advisors, to Wells Fargo. At the closing, we received $4.5 billion in cash as the purchase price of our joint venture interest and de recognized the carrying value related to our investment in the joint venture. Results for 2009 include the associated pre tax gain on the sale of $2.247 billion, which is reflected in Equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, net of taxes in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Results for 2009 also include certain one time costs related to the sale of the joint venture interest of $104 million, for pre tax compensation costs and costs related to increased contributions to our charitable foundation. For more information on our former investment in the Wachovia Securities joint venture, including the lookback option, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On August 15, 2008, Wachovia announced that it had reached an agreement in principle for a global settlement of investigations concerning the underwriting, sale and subsequent auction of certain auction rate securities by subsidiaries of Wachovia Securities and had recorded an increase to legal reserves. Our recorded share of pre tax earnings from the joint venture for the year ended December 31, 2008 included $355 million related to the impact of this item on our share of the equity earnings of the joint venture. Commercial Mortgage Securitization Operations In 2008, we classified our commercial mortgage securitization operations as a divested business, reflecting our decision to exit this business. These operations, which involved the origination and purchase of commercial mortgage loans that we in turn would aggregate and sell into commercial mortgage backed securitization transactions, together with related hedging activities, were previously reported within the Asset Management segment. We retained and continue the remainder of our commercial mortgage origination, servicing and other commercial mortgage related activities, which remain a part of our Asset Management segment. 153 Table of Contents Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes Certain products included in the Retirement and International Insurance segments, are experience rated in that investment results associated with these products are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. The investments supporting these experience rated products, excluding derivatives and commercial mortgage and other loans, are classified as trading and are carried at fair value. These trading investments are reflected on the statements of financial position as Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are reported in Asset management fees and other income. Interest and dividend income for these investments is reported in Net investment income. Derivatives that support these experience rated products are reflected on the statement of financial position as Other long term investments carried at fair value and the realized and unrealized gains and losses are reported in Realized investment gains (losses), net. Commercial mortgage and other loans that support these experience rated products are carried at unpaid principal, net of unamortized discounts and an allowance for losses, and are reflected on the statements of financial position as Commercial mortgage and other loans. Adjusted operating income excludes net investment gains and losses on both trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and related derivatives. This is consistent with the exclusion of realized investment gains and losses with respect to other investments supporting insurance liabilities managed on a consistent basis. In addition, to be consistent with the historical treatment of charges related to realized investment gains and losses on investments, adjusted operating income also excludes the change in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments (including changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans) supporting these experience rated contracts, which are reflected in Interest credited to policyholders account balances. The result of this approach is that adjusted operating income for these products includes net fee revenue and interest spread we earn on these experience rated contracts, and excludes changes in fair value of the pool of investments, both realized and unrealized, that we expect will ultimately accrue to the contractholders. Results for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 include the recognition of net investment gains of $501 million and $1,601 million, and net investment losses of $1,734 million, respectively, on Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. These net investment gains and losses primarily represent interest rate related mark to market adjustments, which include the impact of changes in credit spreads on fixed maturity securities. In addition, results for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 include net investment gains of $50 million, losses of $131 million and gains of $126 million, respectively, related to changes in the fair value of derivatives that support these experience rated products. Consistent with our treatment of Realized investment gains (losses), net, these gains and losses, which are expected to ultimately accrue to the contractholders, are excluded from adjusted operating income. In addition, results for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 include increases of $631 million and $899 million, and decreases of $1,163 million, respectively, in contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes in the pool of investments that support these experience rated contracts. These liability changes are reflected in Interest credited to policyholders account balances and are also excluded from adjusted operating income. Net investment gains net of the increase in contractholder liabilities due to these asset valuation changes resulted in net losses of $80 million in 2010, net gains of $571 million in 2009, and net losses of $445 million in 2008. This primarily reflects timing differences between the recognition of the interest rate related mark to market adjustments and the recognition of the recovery of these mark to market adjustments in future periods through subsequent increases in asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities. Decreases to these contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes are limited by certain floors and therefore do not reflect cumulative declines in recorded asset values of $9 million as of December 31, 2010 and $35 million as of December 31, 2009. We have recovered and expect to recover in future periods these declines in recorded asset values through subsequent increases in recorded asset values or reductions in crediting rates on contractholder liabilities. In addition, as prescribed by U.S. GAAP, changes in the fair value of commercial mortgage and other loans held in our general account, other than when associated with impairments, are not recognized in income in the current period, while the impact of these changes in value are reflected as a change in the liability to fully participating contractholders in the current period. Included in the amounts above related to the change in the liability to contractholders as a result of commercial mortgage and other loans are increases of $108 million and $105 million, and decreases of $144 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 154 Table of Contents Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities The authoritative guidance related to fair value established a framework for measuring fair value that includes a hierarchy used to classify the inputs used in measuring fair value. The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these levels. The tables below present the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, split between the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, by fair value hierarchy level. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis presented on a consolidated basis. Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies $ 0 $ 5,264 $ 0 $ $ 5,264 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 1,574 0 1,574 Foreign government bonds 0 49,549 13 49,562 Corporate securities 5 69,843 694 70,542 Asset backed securities 0 5,713 1,348 7,061 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 8,128 130 8,258 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 7,525 20 7,545 Subtotal 5 147,596 2,205 149,806 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 266 0 266 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 182 0 182 Foreign government bonds 0 569 0 569 Corporate securities 0 10,036 82 10,118 Asset backed securities 0 804 226 1,030 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 2,402 5 2,407 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 1,345 18 1,363 Equity securities 935 200 4 1,139 Short term investments and cash equivalents 606 91 0 697 Subtotal 1,541 15,895 335 17,771 Other trading account assets: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 96 0 96 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 118 0 118 Foreign government bonds 1 24 0 25 Corporate securities 14 151 35 200 Asset backed securities 0 574 50 624 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 84 19 103 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 163 18 181 Equity securities 392 142 26 560 All other 33 7,325 134 (5,330 ) 2,162 Subtotal 440 8,677 282 (5,330 ) 4,069 Equity securities, available for sale 1,038 2,788 322 4,148 Commercial mortgage and other loans 0 136 212 348 Other long term investments 37 169 768 974 Short term investments 2,171 1,641 0 3,812 Cash equivalents 2,328 6,363 0 8,691 Other assets 1,000 1,678 (2 ) 2,676 Subtotal excluding separate account assets 8,560 184,943 4,122 (5,330 ) 192,295 Separate account assets(3) 42,356 149,628 15,792 207,776 Total assets $ 50,916 $ 334,571 $ 19,914 $ (5,330 ) $ 400,071 Future policy benefits $ 0 $ 0 $ (204 ) $ $ (204 ) Long term debt 0 0 0 0 Other liabilities 1 6,162 2 (5,138 ) 1,027 Total liabilities $ 1 $ 6,162 $ (202 ) $ (5,138 ) $ 823 155 Table of Contents Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies $ 0 $ 6,034 $ 0 $ $ 6,034 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 657 0 657 Foreign government bonds 0 663 14 677 Corporate securities 0 27,182 493 27,675 Asset backed securities 0 3,525 405 3,930 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 3,779 0 3,779 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 2,422 3 2,425 Subtotal 0 44,262 915 45,177 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 0 0 0 0 Other trading account assets: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 0 0 0 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 0 0 0 Foreign government bonds 0 0 0 0 Corporate securities 0 118 0 118 Asset backed securities 0 33 4 37 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 0 0 0 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 0 0 0 Equity securities 1 0 0 1 All other 0 0 0 0 Subtotal 1 151 4 156 Equity securities, available for sale 3,420 140 33 3,593 Commercial mortgage and other loans 0 0 0 0 Other long term investments 0 (40 ) 0 (40 ) Short term investments 1,136 28 0 1,164 Cash equivalents 137 308 0 445 Other assets 0 107 11 118 Subtotal excluding separate account assets 4,694 44,956 963 50,613 Separate account assets(3) 0 0 0 0 Total assets $ 4,694 $ 44,956 $ 963 $ $ 50,613 Future policy benefits $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ $ 0 Long term debt 0 0 0 0 Other liabilities 0 0 1 1 Total liabilities $ 0 $ 0 $ 1 $ $ 1 (1) The amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 5% and 2% for Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, respectively. Excluding separate account assets for which the risk is borne by the policyholder, the amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 2% for our Financial Services Businesses. The amount of Level 3 liabilities was immaterial to our balance sheet. (2) Netting amounts represent cash collateral and the impact of offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty. (3) Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by us with respect to certain accounts. Separate account assets classified as Level 3 consist primarily of real estate and real estate investment funds. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 156 Table of Contents Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2009(3) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies $ 0 $ 4,623 $ 0 $ $ 4,623 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 789 0 789 Foreign government bonds 0 41,326 31 41,357 Corporate securities 5 62,459 534 62,998 Asset backed securities 0 2,895 3,753 6,648 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 7,051 305 7,356 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 8,823 100 8,923 Subtotal 5 127,966 4,723 132,694 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 128 0 128 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 31 0 31 Foreign government bonds 0 517 0 517 Corporate securities 0 9,419 83 9,502 Asset backed securities 0 576 281 857 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 1,888 5 1,893 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 1,412 20 1,432 Equity securities 700 232 3 935 Short term investments and cash equivalents 338 387 0 725 Subtotal 1,038 14,590 392 16,020 Other trading account assets: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 95 0 95 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 0 0 0 Foreign government bonds 1 23 0 24 Corporate securities 16 187 34 237 Asset backed securities 0 867 84 951 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 109 27 136 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 146 12 158 Equity securities 306 136 24 466 All other 37 4,707 297 (4,242 ) 799 Subtotal 360 6,270 478 (4,242 ) 2,866 Equity securities, available for sale 854 2,589 367 3,810 Commercial mortgage and other loans 0 114 338 452 Other long term investments 36 5 498 539 Short term investments 2,544 2,510 0 5,054 Cash equivalents 5,502 3,939 0 9,441 Other assets 2,391 62 16 2,469 Subtotal excluding separate account assets 12,730 158,045 6,812 (4,242 ) 173,345 Separate account assets(4) 33,641 127,381 13,052 174,074 Total assets $ 46,371 $ 285,426 $ 19,864 $ (4,242 ) $ 347,419 Future policy benefits $ 0 $ 0 $ 55 $ $ 55 Long term debt 0 0 429 429 Other liabilities 0 4,764 6 (3,841 ) 929 Total liabilities $ 0 $ 4,764 $ 490 $ (3,841 ) $ 1,413 157 Table of Contents Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3(1) Netting(2) Total (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies $ 0 $ 3,645 $ 0 $ $ 3,645 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 586 0 586 Foreign government bonds 0 681 16 697 Corporate securities 0 27,335 368 27,703 Asset backed securities 0 980 2,610 3,590 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 3,662 0 3,662 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 2,644 4 2,648 Subtotal 0 39,533 2,998 42,531 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 0 0 0 0 Other trading account assets: U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government authorities and agencies 0 0 0 0 Obligations of U.S. states and their political subdivisions 0 0 0 0 Foreign government bonds 0 0 0 0 Corporate securities 0 122 0 122 Asset backed securities 0 27 13 40 Commercial mortgage backed securities 0 0 0 0 Residential mortgage backed securities 0 0 0 0 Equity securities 5 0 0 5 All other 0 0 0 0 Subtotal 5 149 13 167 Equity securities, available for sale 2,901 158 26 3,085 Commercial mortgage and other loans 0 0 0 0 Other long term investments 0 61 0 61 Short term investments 1,017 321 0 1,338 Cash equivalents 169 529 0 698 Other assets 0 114 11 125 Subtotal excluding separate account assets 4,092 40,865 3,048 48,005 Separate account assets(4) 0 0 0 0 Total assets $ 4,092 $ 40,865 $ 3,048 $ $ 48,005 Future policy benefits $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ $ 0 Long term debt 0 0 0 0 Other liabilities 0 0 0 0 Total liabilities $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ $ 0 (1) The amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 6% and 6% for the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, respectively. Excluding separate account assets for which the risk is borne by the policyholder, the amount of Level 3 assets taken as a percentage of total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis totaled 4% for the Financial Services Businesses. The amount of Level 3 liabilities was immaterial to our balance sheet. (2) Netting amounts represent cash collateral and the impact of offsetting asset and liability positions held with the same counterparty. (3) Includes reclassifications to conform to current period presentation. (4) Separate account assets represent segregated funds that are invested for certain customers. Investment risks associated with market value changes are borne by the customers, except to the extent of minimum guarantees made by us with respect to certain accounts. Separate account assets classified as Level 3 consist primarily of real estate and real estate investment funds. Separate account liabilities are not included in the above table as they are reported at contract value and not fair value in our Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. For additional information regarding the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value by hierarchy level see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The determination of fair value, which for certain assets and liabilities is dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, can have a significant impact on our results of operations. As discussed in more detail below, the determination of fair value for certain assets and liabilities may require the application of a greater degree of judgment depending on market conditions, as the ability to value assets and liabilities can be 158 Table of Contents significantly impacted by a decrease in market activity or a lack of transactions executed in an orderly manner. For a description of the key estimates and assumptions used in our determination of fair value, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following sections provide additional information regarding certain assets and liabilities of our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business which are valued using Level 3 inputs and could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Information regarding Separate Account Assets is excluded as the risk of assets for these categories is primarily borne by our customers and policyholders. Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Public fixed maturity securities included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy are generally priced based on internally developed valuations or non binding broker quotes. Despite the dislocated markets and low levels of liquidity in recent years, except for our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as discussed below, the pricing we received from independent pricing services was not materially different from our internal estimates of current market value for the remainder of our public fixed maturity portfolio. As a result, for public fixed maturity securities we generally continued to use the price provided by the independent pricing services under our normal pricing protocol. Securities with prices based on validated quotes from pricing services are generally reflected within Level 2. For certain private fixed maturity and equity securities, the discounted cash flow or other valuation model uses significant unobservable inputs, and accordingly, such securities are included in Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. As of December 31, 2009, our Level 3 fixed maturity securities included asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages with a fair value of $5,667 million. We reported fair values for these asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as of December 31, 2009 based on our determination that the market for these securities for the period was an inactive market. We considered both third party pricing information and an internally developed price based on a discounted cash flow model in determining the fair value of certain of these securities. Based on the unobservable inputs used in the discounted cash flow model and the limited observable market activity, asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages were included in Level 3 as of December 31, 2009. Beginning in the second quarter of 2010, we observed an increasingly active market, as evidence of orderly transactions in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages became more apparent. Additionally, the valuation based on the pricing we received from independent pricing services was not materially different from our internal estimates of current market value for these securities. As a result, where third party pricing information based on the observable inputs was used to fair value the security, and based on the assessment that the market has been increasingly active, we have reported the fair values for these asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages in Level 2 since June 30, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the fair values of these securities included in Level 2 were $4,799 million. Transfers out of Level 3 into Level 2 totaled $5,196 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 relating to this change. Excluding these asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, Level 3 fixed maturity securities included approximately $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2010 and $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2009 of public fixed maturities, with values primarily based on non binding broker quotes, and approximately $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2010 and $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 of private fixed maturities, with values primarily based on internally developed models. Significant unobservable inputs used included: issue specific credit adjustments, material non public financial information, management judgment, estimation of future earnings and cash flows, default rate assumptions, liquidity assumptions and non binding quotes from market makers. These inputs are usually considered unobservable, as not all market participants will have access to this data. For additional information regarding our holdings of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, see, Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities. While the fair value of these investments is in a significant unrealized loss position due to increased credit spreads and illiquidity in the financial markets, we believe the ultimate value in aggregate that will be realized from these investments is greater than that reflected by their current fair value. 159 Table of Contents The impact our determination of fair value for fixed maturity and equity securities has on our results of operations is dependent on our classification of the security as either trading, available for sale, or held to maturity. For our investments classified as trading, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded within Asset management fees and other income. For our investments classified as available for sale, the impact of changes in fair value is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of equity. Our investments classified as held to maturity are carried at amortized cost. Other Long Term Investments The fair value of real estate held in consolidated investment funds is determined through an independent appraisal process. The appraisals generally utilize a discounted cash flow model, following an income approach that incorporates various assumptions including rental revenue, operating expenses and discount rates. The appraisals also include replacement cost estimates and recent sales data as alternate methods of fair value. These appraisals and the related assumptions are updated at least annually, and incorporate historical property experience and any observable market data, including any market transactions. Since many of the assumptions utilized are unobservable and are considered to be significant inputs to the valuation, the real estate investments within other long term investments have been reflected within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Consolidated real estate investment funds classified as Level 3 totaled approximately $0.4 billion as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Our direct investment in these funds is not material, and the majority of the assets recorded as a result of the consolidation of these funds are offset by a noncontrolling interest reflected as a separate component of equity. The noncontrolling interest is not considered to be fair valued and therefore is not included in fair value reporting above. The fair value of fund investments, where the fair value option has been elected, is primarily determined by the fund managers. Since the valuations may be based on unobservable market inputs and cannot be validated by the Company, these investments have also been included within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. Investments in these funds included in Level 3 totaled approximately $0.3 billion as of December 31, 2010. Derivative Instruments Derivatives are recorded at fair value either as assets, within Other trading account assets, or Other long term investments, or as liabilities, within Other liabilities, except for embedded derivatives which are recorded with the associated host contract. The fair values of derivative contracts are determined based on quoted prices in active exchanges or through the use of valuation models, and are affected by changes in market factors including non performance risk. The majority of our derivative positions are traded in the over the counter, or OTC, derivative market and are classified within Level 2 in our fair value hierarchy since they have bid and ask prices that are actively quoted or can be readily obtained from external market data providers. Our policy is to use mid market pricing consistent with our best estimate of fair value. The bid ask spreads for OTC derivatives classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are generally wider than derivatives classified within Level 2 thus requiring more judgment in estimating the mid market price of such derivatives. Derivatives classified as Level 3 include first to default credit basket swaps, look back equity options and other structured products. These derivatives are valued based upon models with some significant unobservable market inputs or inputs from less actively traded markets. OTC derivatives classified within Level 3 are validated through periodic comparison of our fair values to broker dealer values. The fair values of OTC derivative assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 totaled approximately $126 million and $3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010 and $288 million and $6 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2009, without giving consideration to the impact of netting. For additional information regarding embedded derivatives in our annuity and retirement products classified as Level 3, see Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features below. All realized and unrealized changes in fair value of dealer and non dealer related derivatives, with the exception of the effective portion of qualifying cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, are recorded in current earnings. Generally, the changes in fair value of non dealer related derivatives, excluding those that qualify for hedge accounting, are recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. For additional information regarding the impact of changes in fair value of derivative instruments on our results of operations see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses below. 160 Table of Contents Variable Annuity Optional Living Benefit Features Our liability for future policy benefits includes general account liabilities for guarantees on variable annuity contracts, including guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits (GMAB), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) and guaranteed minimum income and withdrawal benefits (GMIWB). While these guarantees primarily relate to the optional living benefit features of our Individual Annuities segment, they are also included in certain variable annuities in our International Insurance segment and certain retirement account based group variable annuities in our Retirement segment. These benefits are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The fair values of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefit payments to customers less the present value of assessed rider fees attributable to the embedded derivative feature. This methodology could result in either a liability or contra liability balance, given changing capital market conditions and various policyholder behavior assumptions. Since there is no observable active market for the transfer of these obligations, the valuations are calculated using internally developed models with option pricing techniques. Because there are significant assumptions utilized in the valuation of the embedded derivatives associated with our optional living benefit features that are primarily unobservable, the liability included in future policy benefits has been reflected within Level 3 in our fair value hierarchy. We are also required to incorporate the market perceived risk of our own non performance in the valuation of the embedded derivatives associated with our optional living benefit features. Since insurance liabilities are senior to debt, we believe that reflecting the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries in the valuation of the liability appropriately takes into consideration our own risk of non performance. To reflect the markets perception of our own risk of non performance, we incorporate an additional spread over LIBOR into the discount rate used in the valuations of the embedded derivative liabilities. The additional spread over LIBOR rates incorporated into the discount rate as of December 31, 2010 generally ranged from 50 to 150 basis points for the portion of the interest rate curve most relevant to these liabilities. This additional spread is applied at an individual contract level and only to those embedded derivatives in a liability position and not to those in a contra liability position. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with the optional living benefit features of the Individual Annuities segment, before the adjustment for the markets perception of our own non performance risk, was a net $533 million liability. This liability was comprised of $1,503 million of embedded derivative liabilities net of $970 million of contra liabilities. For 2010, our adjustment for the markets perception of our own non performance risk resulted in a $723 million decrease to the embedded derivative liability for the Individual Annuities segment, reflecting the additional spread over LIBOR we incorporated into the discount rate used in the valuations of those embedded derivatives in a liability position. For December 31, 2009, our adjustment for the markets perception of our non performance risk resulted in a $312 million decrease to the embedded derivative liability for the Individual Annuities segment. The increase in the adjustment for the markets perception of our non performance risk from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, was driven by an increase in the value of the underlying embedded derivative liabilities primarily due to lower interest rates. The change in fair value of the GMAB, GMWB and GMIWB resulted in a decrease in the total liability of $259 million, from a liability of $55 million as of December 31, 2009 to a contra liability of $204 million as of December 31, 2010. The decrease primarily reflects lower expected future benefit payments, primarily resulting from an increase in policyholder account balances driven by favorable market conditions in 2010. These changes were significantly offset by decreased amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and changes in value of related hedging instruments, primarily in our Individual Annuities segment as described in more detail under Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses Realized investment gains and losses are generated from numerous sources, including the sale of fixed maturity securities, equity securities, investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships and other types of investments, as well as adjustments to the cost basis of investments for other than temporary impairments. 161 Table of Contents Realized investment gains and losses are also generated from prepayment premiums received on private fixed maturity securities, recoveries of principal on previously impaired securities, net changes in the allowance for losses, as well as gains and losses on sales, certain restructurings, and foreclosures on commercial mortgage and other loans, fair value changes on commercial mortgage loans carried at fair value, and fair value changes on embedded derivatives and free standing derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, except those derivatives used in our capacity as a broker or dealer. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording fixed maturity other than temporary impairments, see General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities below. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary declines in investment value and the related methodology for recording equity impairments, see General Account Investments Equity Securities Other Than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities below. For a further discussion of our policy regarding commercial mortgage and other loans, see General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality below. The level of other than temporary impairments generally reflects economic conditions and is generally expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and to decrease when economic conditions improve. Historically, the causes of other than temporary impairments have been specific to each individual issuer and have not directly resulted in impairments to other securities within the same industry or geographic region. As discussed in more detail below, certain of the other than temporary impairments recognized for the year ended December 31, 2010 are primarily related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and Japanese commercial mortgage backed securities that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, foreign currency translation losses related to foreign denominated securities that are approaching maturity, and the intent to sell securities, primarily related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Other than temporary impairments for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, were primarily related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages and reflected the overall deterioration of the U.S. housing market. We may realize additional credit and interest rate related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. In light of unprecedented market conditions, and in consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, we temporarily curtailed the active trading policy of certain portfolios. In the second quarter of 2009, we resumed a more restricted trading program in these portfolios. Other than temporary impairments, interest rate related losses and credit related losses on sales (other than those related to certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors) are excluded from adjusted operating income. We require most issuers of private fixed maturity securities to pay us make whole yield maintenance payments when they prepay the securities. Prepayments are driven by factors specific to the activities of our borrowers as well as the interest rate environment. We use interest rate and currency swaps and other derivatives to manage interest and currency exchange rate exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities, including duration mismatches. We use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk that unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates will reduce U.S. dollar equivalent earnings generated by certain of our non U.S. businesses. We also use equity based and interest rate derivatives to hedge the risks embedded in some of our annuity products. Derivative contracts also include forward purchases and sales of to be announced mortgage backed securities primarily related to our dollar roll program. Many of these derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, and consequently, we recognize the changes in fair value of such contracts from period to period in current earnings, although we do not necessarily account for the related assets or liabilities the same way. Accordingly, realized investment gains and losses from our derivative activities can contribute significantly to fluctuations in net income. Adjusted operating income generally excludes Realized investment gains (losses), net, subject to certain exceptions (realized investment gains or losses within certain of our businesses for which such gains or losses are a principal source of earnings and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments) and related charges and adjustments. 162 Table of Contents The following tables set forth Realized investment gains (losses), net, by investment type for the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business, as well as related charges and adjustments associated with the Financial Services Businesses, for the periods indicated. For additional details regarding adjusted operating income, which is our measure of performance for the segments of our Financial Services Businesses, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses), net: Financial Services Businesses $ 256 $ (1,612 ) $ (2,472 ) Closed Block Business 794 (1,285 ) 15 Consolidated realized investment gains (losses), net $ 1,050 $ (2,897 ) $ (2,457 ) Financial Services Businesses: Realized investment gains (losses), net: Fixed maturity securities $ (361 ) $ (823 ) $ (1,647 ) Equity securities 11 (402 ) (941 ) Commercial mortgage and other loans 35 (517 ) (170 ) Derivative instruments 601 171 282 Other (30 ) (41 ) 4 Total 256 (1,612 ) (2,472 ) Related adjustments(1) (150 ) 393 (305 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net, and related adjustments $ 106 $ (1,219 ) $ (2,777 ) Related charges(2) $ (178 ) $ (492 ) $ 293 Closed Block Business: Realized investment gains (losses), net: Fixed maturity securities $ 117 $ (381 ) $ (451 ) Equity securities 174 (473 ) (441 ) Commercial mortgage and other loans 18 (85 ) (29 ) Derivative instruments 489 (298 ) 958 Other (4 ) (48 ) (22 ) Total $ 794 $ (1,285 ) $ 15 (1) Related adjustments include that portion of Realized investment gains (losses), net, that are included in adjusted operating income, including those pertaining to certain derivative contracts, as well as those within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings. Related adjustments also include that portion of Asset management fees and other income that are excluded from adjusted operating income, including the change in value due to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates during the period on certain assets and liabilities for which we economically hedge the foreign currency exposure, realized and unrealized gains and losses on certain general account investments classified as Other trading account assets, as well as counterparty credit losses on derivative positions. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these related adjustments. (2) Reflects charges that are excluded from adjusted operating income, as described more fully in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 163 Table of Contents 2010 to 2009 Annual Comparison Financial Services Businesses The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment gains in 2010 were $256 million, compared to net realized investment losses of $1,612 million in 2009. Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $361 million in 2010, compared to net realized losses of $823 million in 2009, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities(1) $ 380 $ 788 Private bond prepayment premiums 37 19 Total gross realized investment gains 417 807 Gross realized investment losses: Net other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings(2) (564 ) (1,174 ) Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (173 ) (319 ) Credit related losses on sales (41 ) (137 ) Total gross realized investment losses (778 ) (1,630 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ (361 ) $ (823 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Securities(1) $ 207 $ 469 (1) Amounts exclude prepayment premiums, other than temporary impairments, and credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. (2) Excludes the portion of other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $207 million in 2010 were primarily due to sales within our Retirement and Individual Annuities segments. Included in the gross gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities were $4 million of gross gains related to the sale of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $469 million in 2009 were primarily due to sales of government bonds in our Gibraltar Life and Japanese Life Planner operations and sales within our Individual Annuities segment. Sales of fixed maturity securities in our Individual Annuities segment were primarily due to transfers of investments out of our general account and into separate accounts relating to an automatic rebalancing element embedded in the living benefit features of some of our variable annuity products. There were no sales in 2009 related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2010 and 2009. Net realized gains on equity securities were $11 million in 2010, of which net trading gains on sales of equity securities were $89 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $78 million. Net trading gains in 2010 were primarily due to private equity sales within our Corporate and Other operations and sales within our International Insurance operations. Net realized losses on equity securities were $402 million in 2009, of which other than temporary impairments were $389 million and net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $13 million. Net trading losses in 2009 were primarily due to sales within our Gibraltar Life operations. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2010 and 2009. Net realized gains on commercial mortgage and other loans in 2010 were $35 million and primarily related to a net decrease in the loan loss reserves of $103 million and mark to market net gains on our interim loan 164 Table of Contents portfolio of $17 million. These net gains were partially offset by net realized losses on loan modifications, payoffs, and foreclosures within our commercial mortgage operations. Net losses on commercial mortgage and other loans in 2009 were $517 million primarily related to the net increase in the loan loss reserve of $317 million and mark to market losses on mortgage loans within our commercial mortgage operations. For additional information regarding our commercial mortgage and other loan loss reserves see General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality. Net realized gains on derivatives were $601 million in 2010, compared to net realized gains of $171 million in 2009. The net derivative gains in 2010 primarily reflect net gains of $521 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration as interest rates declined and net gains of $325 million primarily related to embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. See Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities for additional information. Also contributing to these gains are net derivative gains of $99 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments and net gains of $43 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. Partially offsetting these gains were net derivative losses of $319 million on foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge the future income of non U.S. businesses primarily in Japan and net losses of $75 million on credit derivatives as credit spreads tightened. The net derivative gains in 2009 primarily reflect net gains of $376 million on embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. Also contributing to the net derivative gains in 2009 were net gains of $196 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market and net gains of $87 million on mark to market adjustments from credit derivatives. Partially offsetting these gains were net mark to market losses of $376 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration and net losses of $121 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Net realized losses on other investments were $30 million in 2010, which reflected $30 million of other other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships and real estate investments. Net realized losses on other investments were $41 million in 2009, which included $48 million of other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships and losses on investment real estate in our asset management operations. During 2010, we recorded other than temporary impairments of $672 million in earnings, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $1,611 million recorded in earnings in 2009. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings attributable to the Financial Services Businesses by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings Financial Services Businesses(1) Public fixed maturity securities $ 422 $ 1,022 Private fixed maturity securities 142 152 Total fixed maturity securities 564 1,174 Equity securities 78 389 Other invested assets(2) 30 48 Total $ 672 $ 1,611 (1) Excludes the portion of other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to investments in joint ventures and partnerships. 165 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Financial Services Businesses(1) Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2) $ 140 $ 185 $ 325 Due to other accounting guidelines(3) 69 170 239 Total $ 209 $ 355 $ 564 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Financial Services Businesses(1) Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2) $ 653 $ 321 $ 974 Due to other accounting guidelines(3) 15 185 200 Total $ 668 $ 506 $ 1,174 (1) Excludes the portion of other than temporary impairment recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. (3) Primarily represents circumstances where we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2010 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, Japanese commercial mortgage backed securities, and the services, manufacturing, and finance sectors of our corporate securities. These other than temporary impairments were primarily driven by asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, the impact of the rising forward LIBOR curve and the intent to sell securities. Additionally, other than temporary impairments were driven by Japanese commercial mortgage backed securities that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, and foreign currency translation losses related to foreign denominated securities that are approaching maturity. Our Japanese insurance operations hold U.S. dollar denominated investments which in some cases, due primarily to the strengthening of the yen, are currently in an unrealized loss position. As they approach maturity and remain in an unrealized loss position, it becomes less likely that the exchange rates will recover and more likely that losses will be realized upon maturity. Accordingly, additional impairments would be recorded in earnings. As of December 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses related to those securities maturing between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2012 are $201 million. Based on December 31, 2010 fair values, absent a change in currency rates, impairments of approximately $169 million would be recorded in earnings in 2011. During 2010, we recorded other than temporary impairments of $143 million in earnings related to securities with an unrealized foreign currency translation loss that are approaching maturity. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2009 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the manufacturing and services sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by liquidity concerns, downgrades in 166 Table of Contents credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2010 and 2009 were primarily driven by circumstances where the decline in value was maintained for one year or greater or where we intend to sell the security. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2010 were primarily in our Japanese insurance operations equity portfolios. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2009 were primarily driven by declines in value of fund shares representing our interest in high yield bond funds of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance and circumstances where we lack the ability or intent to retain the security to recovery. Closed Block Business For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment gains in 2010 were $794 million, compared to net realized investment losses of $1,285 million in 2009. Net realized gains on fixed maturity securities were $117 million in 2010, compared to net realized losses of $381 million in 2009, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities(1) $ 273 $ 199 Private bond prepayment premiums 24 19 Total gross realized investment gains 297 218 Gross realized investment losses: Net other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings(2) (168 ) (520 ) Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (10 ) (72 ) Credit related losses on sales (2 ) (7 ) Total gross realized investment losses (180 ) (599 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ 117 $ (381 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Securities(1) $ 263 $ 127 (1) Amounts exclude prepayment premiums, other than temporary impairments, and credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. (2) Excludes the portion of other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $263 million in 2010 included $3 million of gross gains on sales or maturities related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages in 2010. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2010 and 2009. Net realized gains on equity securities were $174 million in 2010. Net trading gains on sales of equity securities were $208 million, partially offset by other than temporary impairments of $34 million. Net realized losses on equity securities were $473 million in 2009, of which other than temporary impairments were $613 million, partially offset by net trading gains on sales of equity securities of $140 million. These gains reflect improved equity markets throughout 2010 and 2009 coupled with the current equity trading strategy which produced gains as the years progressed. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2010 and 2009. 167 Table of Contents Net realized gains on commercial mortgage and other loans in 2010 were $18 million related to a net decrease in the loan loss reserve of $22 million, partially offset by net realized losses. Net realized losses on commercial mortgage and other loans in 2009 were $85 million related to a net increase in the loan loss reserve of $82 million and other net realized losses. For additional information regarding our loan loss reserves see General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality. Net realized gains on derivatives were $489 million in 2010, compared to net realized losses of $298 million in 2009. Derivative gains in 2010 primarily reflect net mark to market gains of $404 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration as interest rates declined and net derivative gains of $74 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Also, contributing to the net derivative gains were net realized gains of $17 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. Derivative losses in 2009 primarily reflect net mark to market losses of $218 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio and net losses of $149 million related to currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Partially offsetting these losses were net gains of $52 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. Net realized losses on other investments were $4 million in 2010, which included $6 million of other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships investments. Net realized losses on other investments were $48 million in 2009 of which $51 million was related to other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships investments. During 2010, we recorded other than temporary impairments of $208 million in earnings, compared to other than temporary impairments of $1,184 million recorded in earnings in 2009. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings attributable to the Closed Block Business by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings Closed Block Business(1) Public fixed maturity securities $ 158 $ 465 Private fixed maturity securities 10 55 Total fixed maturity securities 168 520 Equity securities 34 613 Other invested assets(2) 6 51 Total $ 208 $ 1,184 (1) Excludes the portion of other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Closed Block Business(1) Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2) $ 66 $ 28 $ 94 Due to other accounting guidelines(3) 67 7 74 Total $ 133 $ 35 $ 168 168 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Closed Block Business(1) Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2) $ 319 $ 189 $ 508 Due to other accounting guidelines(3) 3 9 12 Total $ 322 $ 198 $ 520 (1) Excludes the portion of other than temporary impairment recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. (3) Primarily represents circumstances where we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2010 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages that reflect adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers as well as our intent to sell certain asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2009 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the manufacturing and services sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2010 and 2009 were primarily due to circumstances where the decline in value was maintained for one year or greater. 169 Table of Contents 2009 to 2008 Annual Comparison Financial Services Businesses The Financial Services Businesses net realized investment losses in 2009 were $1,612 million, compared to net realized investment losses of $2,472 million in 2008. Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $823 million in 2009, compared to net realized losses of $1,647 million in 2008, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities(1) $ 788 $ 465 Private bond prepayment premiums 19 33 Total gross realized investment gains 807 498 Gross realized investment losses: Net other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings(2) (1,174 ) (1,679 ) Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (319 ) (354 ) Credit related losses on sales (137 ) (112 ) Total gross realized investment losses (1,630 ) (2,145 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ (823 ) $ (1,647 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Securities(1) $ 469 $ 111 (1) Amounts exclude prepayment premiums, other than temporary impairments, and credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. (2) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $469 million in 2009 were primarily due to sales of government bonds in our Gibraltar Life and Japanese Life Planner operations and sales within our Individual Annuities segment. Sales of fixed maturity securities in our Individual Annuities segment were primarily due to transfers of investments out of our general account and into separate accounts relating to an automatic rebalancing element embedded in the living benefit features of some of our variable annuity products. Net trading gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity investments of $111 million in 2008, were primarily related to sales of government bonds in our Gibraltar Life and Japanese Life Planner operations. None of the gross losses on sales and maturities in 2009 and 2008 related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. See General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Asset Backed Securities for additional information regarding our exposure to sub prime mortgages. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities in 2009 and 2008. Net realized losses on equity securities were $402 million in 2009, of which other than temporary impairments were $389 million and net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $13 million. Net trading losses in 2009 were primarily due to sales within our Gibraltar Life operations. Net realized losses on equity securities were $941 million in 2008, of which other than temporary impairments were $815 million and net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $126 million. Net trading losses in 2008 were primarily due to sales within our Gibraltar Life and Life Planner operations. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2009 and 2008. Net realized gains on derivatives were $171 million in 2009, compared to net realized gains of $282 million in 2008. The net derivative gains in 2009 primarily reflect net gains of $376 million on embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. See Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities for additional information. Also contributing to the net derivative gains in 2009 were net gains of $196 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the 170 Table of Contents European market and net gains of $87 million on mark to market adjustments from credit derivatives. Partially offsetting these gains were net mark to market losses of $376 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration and net losses of $121 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. The net derivative gains in 2008 primarily reflect net mark to market gains of $985 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration, net gains of $226 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign investments in our domestic investment portfolio and net gains of $124 million related to equity market hedges used in our asset management business. Partially offsetting these gains were net mark to market losses of $621 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market and net losses of $456 million on embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with certain variable annuity contracts. Net realized losses on commercial mortgage and other loans and other investments were $558 million in aggregate in 2009, primarily related to $317 million of increases to commercial mortgage and other loan loss reserves. The remaining $241 million of net realized losses on other investments was primarily driven by mark to market losses on mortgage loans within our commercial mortgage operations and losses on investment real estate in our asset management operations, as well as $48 million of other other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships and real estate investments. Net realized losses on commercial mortgage and other loans and other investments were $166 million in aggregate in 2008, primarily related to mark to market losses on mortgage loans within our divested commercial mortgage securitization operations due to instability in the commercial real estate market during 2008. For additional information regarding our commercial mortgage and other loan loss reserves see General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality. During 2009, we recorded other than temporary impairments of $1,611 million in earnings, compared to total other than temporary impairments of $2,533 million recorded in earnings in 2008. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings attributable to the Financial Services Businesses by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings Financial Services Businesses(1) Public fixed maturity securities $ 1,022 $ 1,549 Private fixed maturity securities 152 130 Total fixed maturity securities 1,174 1,679 Equity securities 389 815 Other invested assets(2) 48 39 Total $ 1,611 $ 2,533 (1) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Financial Services Businesses(1) Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2) $ 653 $ 321 $ 974 Due to other accounting guidelines(3) 15 185 200 Total $ 668 $ 506 $ 1,174 (1) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. 171 Table of Contents (2) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. (3) Primarily represents circumstances where we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and amounts related to foreign currency translation losses for securities approaching maturity. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Financial Services Businesses Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(1) $ 265 $ 476 $ 741 Due to other accounting guidelines(2) 705 233 938 Total $ 970 $ 709 $ 1,679 (1) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was partially driven by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. (2) Includes certain circumstances relating to asset backed securities with a credit rating below AA, where the present value of prospective cash flows of the security have declined, but we do not believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Also includes circumstances where we cannot assert our ability or intent to hold for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was driven primarily by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns, and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2009 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the manufacturing and services sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2009 were primarily driven by declines in value of fund shares representing our interest in high yield bond funds of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance and circumstances where we lack the ability or intent to retain the security to recovery. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the finance, services, and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities, and were primarily driven by credit spread increases, liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $84 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers and $50 million related to American International Group, or AIG. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2008 were primarily driven by overall declines in the Japanese equity markets and value declines in our mutual fund shares representing our interest in high yield bond funds of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance. As mentioned above, fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $84 million related to the filing of a bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers. In addition, 2008 also included a $75 million loss associated with this bankruptcy filing relating to the unsecured portion of our counterparty exposure on derivative transactions we had entered into with Lehman Brothers and its affiliates. We replaced these derivative positions with various other counterparties. The loss was included in Asset management fees and other income, under the broker dealer accounting model followed by our affiliated derivative subsidiary that executed these transactions, and was excluded from adjusted operating income as a related adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Closed Block Business For the Closed Block Business, net realized investment losses in 2009 were $1,285 million, compared to net realized investment gains of $15 million in 2008. 172 Table of Contents Net realized losses on fixed maturity securities were $381 million in 2009, compared to net realized losses of $451 million in 2008, as set forth in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business Gross realized investment gains: Gross gains on sales and maturities(1) $ 199 $ 537 Private bond prepayment premiums 19 27 Total gross realized investment gains 218 564 Gross realized investment losses: Net other than temporary impairments recognized in earnings(2) (520 ) (718 ) Gross losses on sales and maturities(1) (72 ) (259 ) Credit related losses on sales (7 ) (38 ) Total gross realized investment losses (599 ) (1,015 ) Realized investment gains (losses), net Fixed Maturity Securities $ (381 ) $ (451 ) Net gains (losses) on sales and maturities Fixed Maturity Securities(1) $ 127 $ 278 (1) Amounts exclude prepayment premiums, other than temporary impairments, and credit related losses through sales of investments pursuant to our credit risk and portfolio management objectives. (2) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $127 million in 2009 were primarily due to sales related to our total return strategy. Gross losses on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $72 million in 2009, declined in comparison to $259 million of such losses in 2008, primarily due to the restriction of our active trading policies, as discussed below. There were no gross losses on sales or maturities in 2009 or 2008 related to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. In light of the unprecedented market conditions and in consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we curtailed our active trading policy. Starting in the second quarter of 2009, we resumed a more restricted trading program in these portfolios. These restrictions resulted in a lower level of realized gains and losses in this portfolio than might otherwise have been incurred. Net gains on sales and maturities of fixed maturity securities of $278 million in 2008 were also primarily due to sales related to our total return strategy. Net realized losses on equity securities were $473 million in 2009, of which other than temporary impairments were $613 million, partially offset by net trading gains on sales of equity securities of $140 million. These gains reflect improved equity markets throughout 2009 coupled with the current equity trading strategy which produced gains as the year progressed. Net realized losses on equity securities were $441 million in 2008, of which other than temporary impairments were $387 million, and net trading losses on sales of equity securities were $54 million. Net trading losses for 2008 reflect sales pursuant to our active management strategy, which was curtailed or partially restricted for 2009, as discussed above. See below for additional information regarding the other than temporary impairments of equity securities in 2009 and 2008. Net realized losses on derivatives were $298 million in 2009, compared to net realized gains of $958 million in 2008. Derivative losses in 2009 primarily reflect net mark to market losses of $218 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio and net losses of $149 million related to currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Partially offsetting these losses were net gains of $52 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. Derivative gains in 2008 primarily reflect net mark to market gains of $824 million on interest rate derivatives used to manage duration and net gains of $149 million on currency derivatives used to hedge foreign denominated investments. Partially offsetting these gains are net losses of $105 million on embedded derivatives associated with certain externally managed investments in the European market. Net realized losses on commercial mortgage and other loans and other investments were $133 million in aggregate in 2009, including $51 million of other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships investments. The remaining $82 million was primarily related to increases to commercial mortgage loan loss 173 Table of Contents reserves. Net realized losses on commercial mortgage and other loans and other investments were $51 million in aggregate in 2008, including $22 million related to other than temporary impairments on joint ventures and partnerships. For additional information regarding our commercial mortgage and other loan loss reserves see General Account Investments Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality. During 2009 we recorded other than temporary impairments of $1,184 million in earnings, compared to other than temporary impairments of $1,127 million recorded in earnings in 2008. The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings attributable to the Closed Block Business by asset type, and for fixed maturity securities, by reason. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Other than temporary impairments recorded in earnings Closed Block Business(1) Public fixed maturity securities $ 465 $ 690 Private fixed maturity securities 55 28 Total fixed maturity securities 520 718 Equity securities 613 387 Other invested assets(2) 51 22 Total $ 1,184 $ 1,127 (1) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Includes other than temporary impairments relating to investments in joint ventures and partnerships. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Closed Block Business(1) Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(2) $ 319 $ 189 $ 508 Due to other accounting guidelines(3) 3 9 12 Total $ 322 $ 198 $ 520 (1) Excludes the portion of 2009 other than temporary impairments recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss), representing any difference between the fair value of the impaired debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows at the time of impairment. (2) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. The amount of the impairment recorded in earnings is the difference between the amortized cost of the debt security and the net present value of its projected future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security prior to impairment. (3) Primarily represents circumstances where we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Asset Backed SecuritiesCollateralized BySub Prime Mortgages All Other FixedMaturitySecurities Total FixedMaturitySecurities (in millions) Other than temporary impairments on fixed maturity securities recorded in earnings Closed Block Business Due to credit events or adverse conditions of the respective issuer(1) $ 137 $ 179 $ 316 Due to other accounting guidelines(2) 326 76 402 Total $ 463 $ 255 $ 718 (1) Represents circumstances where we believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused, or will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in the fair value, at 174 Table of Contents the time the impairment was recorded, was partially driven by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. (2) Includes certain circumstances relating to asset backed securities with a credit rating below AA, where the present value of prospective cash flows of the security have declined, but we do not believe credit events or other adverse conditions of the respective issuers have caused a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Also includes circumstances where we cannot assert our ability or intent to hold for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. In certain of these circumstances the decrease in fair value, at the time the impairment was recorded, was driven primarily by general credit spread widening or liquidity concerns, and we believe the recoverable value of the investment, based on the expected future cash flows, is greater than the current fair value. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2009 were concentrated in asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, and the manufacturing and services sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers, which have caused, or we believe will lead to, a deficiency in the contractual cash flows related to the investment. Other than temporary impairments in 2008 were concentrated in asset backed securities and the finance, services and manufacturing sectors of our corporate securities and were primarily driven by credit spread increases, liquidity concerns, downgrades in credit, bankruptcy or other adverse financial conditions of the respective issuers. Fixed maturity other than temporary impairments in 2008 included $16 million related to the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition by Lehman Brothers and $30 million related to AIG. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2009 were primarily based on the extent and duration of the decline in value, as equity markets only partially recovered in the latter portion of 2009. Equity security other than temporary impairments in 2008 were primarily driven by overall declines in the equity markets. General Account Investments We maintain diversified investment portfolios in our insurance companies to support our liabilities to customers in our Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, as well as our other general liabilities. Our general account does not include: (1) assets of our brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services; (2) assets of our asset management operations, including assets managed for third parties; and (3) those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet. The general account portfolio is managed pursuant to the distinct objectives and investment policy statements of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. The primary investment objectives of the Financial Services Businesses include: matching the liability characteristics of the major products and other obligations of the Company; maximizing the portfolio book yield within risk constraints over time; and for certain portfolios, maximizing total return, including both investment yield and capital gains, and preserving principal, within risk constraints, while matching the liability characteristics of their major products. Our strategies for maximizing the portfolio book yield of the Financial Services Businesses over time include: (1) the investment of proceeds from investment sales, repayments and prepayments, and operating cash flows, into investments with competitive yields, and (2) where appropriate, the sale of the portfolios lower yielding investments, either to meet various cash flow needs or to manage the portfolios duration, credit, currency and other risk constraints, all while minimizing the amount of taxes on realized capital gains. The primary investment objectives of the Closed Block Business include: providing for the reasonable dividend expectations of the participating policyholders within the Closed Block Business and the Class B shareholders; and maximizing total return, including both investment yield and capital gains, and preserving principal, within risk constraints, while matching the liability characteristics of the major products in the Closed Block Business. 175 Table of Contents In light of the recent market and economic conditions, while we continue to look to maximize book yield and match the liability characteristics of our major products, our portfolio management approach now reflects a greater consideration of the capital and tax implications of portfolio activity, as well as our assertions regarding our ability and intent to hold equity securities to recovery, and our lack of any intention or requirement to sell debt securities before anticipated recovery. In consideration of the potential impact on capital and tax positions, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 we temporarily curtailed the active trading policy previously employed in the Closed Block Business and certain portfolios of the Financial Services Businesses. Starting in the second quarter of 2009, we resumed a more restricted trading program in these portfolios, and continue to evaluate trading strategies for these portfolios. For a further discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary impairments, including our assertions regarding our ability and intent to hold equity securities to recovery and any intention or requirement to sell debt securities before anticipated recovery, see Fixed Maturity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities and Equity Securities Other than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities, below. Management of Investments We design asset mix strategies and derivative strategies for our general account to match the characteristics of our products and other obligations and seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. In certain markets, primarily outside the U.S., capital market limitations hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities. We achieve income objectives through asset/liability management, strategic and tactical asset allocations and derivative strategies within a disciplined risk management framework. Derivative strategies are employed within our risk management framework to help manage duration gaps, currency, and other risks between assets and liabilities. For a discussion of our risk management process see Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments, and Other Than Trading Activities Insurance and Annuity Products Asset/Liability Management. Our asset allocation also reflects our desire for broad diversification across asset classes, sectors and issuers. The Asset Management segment manages virtually all of our investments, other than those managed by our International Insurance segment, under the direction and oversight of the Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups. Our International Insurance segment manages the majority of its investments locally, within enterprise risk constraints, in most cases using the international and domestic asset management capabilities of our International Investments or Asset Management segments. The Investment Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our proprietary investments. It also reviews performance and risk positions periodically. Our Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups develop the investment policy for the general account assets of our insurance subsidiaries, oversee the investment process for our general account and have the authority to initiate tactical shifts within exposure ranges approved annually by the Investment Committee. The Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups work closely with each of our business units to ensure that the specific characteristics of our products are incorporated into their processes and to develop investment objectives, including performance factors and measures and asset allocation ranges. We adjust this dynamic process as products change, as customer behavior changes and as changes in the market environment occur. We develop asset strategies for specific classes of product liabilities and attributed or accumulated surplus, each with distinct risk characteristics. Most of our products can be categorized into the following three classes: interest crediting products for which the rates credited to customers are periodically adjusted to reflect market and competitive forces and actual investment experience, such as fixed annuities and universal life insurance; participating individual and experience rated group products in which customers participate in actual investment and business results through annual dividends, interest or return of premium; and guaranteed products for which there are price or rate guarantees for the life of the contract, such as GICs and funding agreements. 176 Table of Contents We determine a target asset mix for each product class, which we reflect in our investment policies. Our asset/liability management process has permitted us to manage interest sensitive products successfully through several market cycles. Portfolio Composition Our investment portfolio consists of public and private fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans, equity securities and other invested assets. The composition of our general account reflects, within the discipline provided by our risk management approach, our need for competitive results and the selection of diverse investment alternatives available primarily through our Asset Management segment. The size of our portfolio enables us to invest in asset classes that may be unavailable to the typical investor. The following tables set forth the composition of the investments of our general account apportioned between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 FinancialServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 124,577 $ 30,499 $ 155,076 56.3 % Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 3,940 0 3,940 1.4 Private, available for sale, at fair value 23,108 14,678 37,786 13.7 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 1,286 0 1,286 0.5 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 17,771 0 17,771 6.5 Other trading account assets, at fair value 1,220 156 1,376 0.5 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 4,135 3,593 7,728 2.8 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 21,901 8,507 30,408 11.0 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 5,290 5,377 10,667 3.9 Other long term investments(1) 2,988 1,582 4,570 1.6 Short term investments(2) 3,698 1,164 4,862 1.8 Total general account investments 209,914 65,556 275,470 100.0 % Invested assets of other entities and operations(3) 8,442 0 8,442 Total investments $ 218,356 $ 65,556 $ 283,912 December 31, 2009 FinancialServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Total % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 111,268 $ 29,537 $ 140,805 55.7 % Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 4,009 0 4,009 1.6 Private, available for sale, at fair value 19,424 12,994 32,418 12.8 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 1,111 0 1,111 0.5 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 16,020 0 16,020 6.3 Other trading account assets, at fair value 1,616 167 1,783 0.7 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 3,798 3,085 6,883 2.7 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 21,281 8,363 29,644 11.7 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 4,728 5,418 10,146 4.0 Other long term investments(1) 2,811 1,545 4,356 1.7 Short term investments(2) 4,302 1,338 5,640 2.3 Total general account investments 190,368 62,447 252,815 100.0 % Invested assets of other entities and operations(3) 7,737 0 7,737 Total investments $ 198,105 $ 62,447 $ 260,552 (1) Other long term investments consist of real estate and non real estate related investments in joint ventures and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership and other miscellaneous investments. For additional information regarding these investments, see Other Long Term Investments below. (2) Short term investments have virtually no sub prime exposure. 177 Table of Contents (3) Includes invested assets of brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. Excludes assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet. For additional information regarding these investments, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. As of December 31, 2010, the average duration of our general account investment portfolio attributable to the domestic Financial Services Businesses, including the impact of derivatives, is between 4 and 5 years. The increase in general account investments attributable to the Financial Services Businesses in 2010 was primarily due to portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income and a net increase in fair value driven by a decrease in risk free rates. The increase in general account investments attributable to the Closed Block Business in 2010 was primarily due to portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income and a net increase in fair value driven by a decrease in risk free rates, partially offset by net operating outflows. For information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our fixed maturities, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have substantial insurance operations in Japan, with 38% and 36% of our Financial Services Businesses general account investments relating to our Japanese insurance operations as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table sets forth the composition of the investments of our Japanese insurance operations general account as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 60,115 $ 50,476 Public, held to maturity, at amortized cost 3,940 4,009 Private, available for sale, at fair value 3,304 2,692 Private, held to maturity, at amortized cost 1,286 1,111 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value 1,376 1,236 Other trading account assets, at fair value 844 804 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 1,612 1,508 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value 4,202 3,675 Policy loans, at outstanding balance 2,083 1,760 Other long term investments(1) 1,320 1,524 Short term investments 211 313 Total Japanese general account investments(2) $ 80,293 $ 69,108 (1) Other long term investments consist of real estate and non real estate related investments in joint ventures and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership, derivatives, and other miscellaneous investments. (2) Excludes assets classified as Separate accounts assets on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2010, the average duration of our general account investment portfolio related to our Japanese insurance operations, including the impact of derivatives, is approximately 12 years. The increase in general account investments related to our Japanese insurance operations in 2010 is primarily attributable to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, portfolio growth as a result of business inflows and a net increase in fair value driven by a decrease in risk free rates. Our Japanese insurance operations use the yen as their functional currency, as it is the currency in which they conduct the majority of their operations. Although the majority of the Japanese general account is invested in yen denominated investments, our Japanese insurance operations also hold significant investments denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2010, our Japanese insurance operations had $18.2 billion, at fair value, of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including $0.7 billion that were hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts and $10.7 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2009, our Japanese insurance operations had $14.8 billion, at fair value, of investments denominated in U.S. dollars, including $0.5 billion that were hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts and $7.9 billion that support liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. For additional information regarding U.S. dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations see, Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. 178 Table of Contents Investment Results The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) and non hedge accounting derivative results, for each major investment category of our general account for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 4.33 % $ 5,927 5.91 % $ 2,326 4.69 % $ 8,253 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 4.51 750 0.00 0 4.51 750 Equity securities 6.33 212 2.70 74 4.70 286 Commercial mortgage and other loans 6.01 1,256 6.61 536 6.18 1,792 Policy loans 5.00 243 6.38 334 5.71 577 Short term investments and cash equivalents 0.32 36 0.56 5 0.33 41 Other investments 4.71 193 6.66 115 5.28 308 Gross investment income before investment expenses 4.39 8,617 5.88 3,390 4.73 12,007 Investment expenses (0.13 ) (208 ) (0.24 ) (143 ) (0.15 ) (351 ) Investment income after investment expenses 4.26 % 8,409 5.64 % 3,247 4.58 % 11,656 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 219 0 219 Total investment income $ 8,628 $ 3,247 $ 11,875 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 4.54 % $ 5,691 6.07 % $ 2,382 4.90 % $ 8,073 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 5.11 743 0.00 0 5.11 743 Equity securities 6.32 225 2.85 77 4.82 302 Commercial mortgage and other loans 5.85 1,237 6.68 556 6.08 1,793 Policy loans 5.19 225 6.54 344 5.93 569 Short term investments and cash equivalents 0.52 66 3.02 31 0.68 97 Other investments 3.16 138 (4.01 ) (72 ) 1.06 66 Gross investment income before investment expenses 4.50 8,325 5.69 3,318 4.78 11,643 Investment expenses (0.15 ) (218 ) (0.23 ) (140 ) (0.17 ) (358 ) Investment income after investment expenses 4.35 % 8,107 5.46 % 3,178 4.61 % 11,285 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 118 0 118 Total investment income $ 8,225 $ 3,178 $ 11,403 179 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Combined Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 4.86 % $ 5,662 6.40 % $ 2,664 5.26 % $ 8,326 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 5.34 749 0.00 0 5.34 749 Equity securities 5.01 223 3.17 101 4.24 324 Commercial mortgage and other loans 6.01 1,241 6.60 542 6.18 1,783 Policy loans 5.24 208 6.42 336 5.91 544 Short term investments and cash equivalents 2.82 304 10.67 101 3.17 405 Other investments 4.26 140 (2.92 ) (44 ) 2.01 96 Gross investment income before investment expenses 4.93 8,527 6.05 3,700 5.22 12,227 Investment expenses (0.15 ) (295 ) (0.24 ) (278 ) (0.17 ) (573 ) Investment income after investment expenses 4.78 % 8,232 5.81 % 3,422 5.05 % 11,654 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 207 0 207 Total investment income $ 8,439 $ 3,422 $ 11,861 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for fixed maturities and short term investments and cash equivalents are calculated net of liabilities and rebate expenses corresponding to securities lending activity. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets. Prior periods yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. (2) Includes investment income of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. See below for a discussion of the change in the Financial Services Businesses yields. The increase in net investment income yield attributable to the Closed Block Business for 2010 compared to 2009, was primarily due to investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships, driven by appreciation and gains on the underlying assets, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets and lower fixed income reinvestment rates. The decrease in net investment income yield attributable to the Closed Block Business for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the impact of lower interest rates on floating rate investments due to rate resets, higher losses from investments in joint ventures and limited partnerships, driven by depreciation and losses on the underlying assets, and lower income from short term investments as a result of lower short term rates. 180 Table of Contents The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) and non hedge accounting derivative results, for each major investment category of the Financial Services Businesses general account, excluding the Japanese operations portion of the general account which is presented separately below, for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 5.58 % $ 4,194 5.74 % $ 4,172 6.06 % $ 4,348 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 4.73 724 5.38 721 5.61 726 Equity securities 9.29 168 9.84 167 7.73 150 Commercial mortgage and other loans 6.32 1,081 6.04 1,070 6.22 1,097 Policy loans 5.72 171 5.94 162 5.87 158 Short term investments and cash equivalents 0.33 32 0.50 55 2.89 283 Other investments 3.21 61 0.39 9 0.03 1 Gross investment income before investment expenses 5.22 6,431 5.27 6,356 5.75 6,763 Investment expenses (0.11 ) (96 ) (0.14 ) (110 ) (0.13 ) (188 ) Investment income after investment expenses 5.11 % 6,335 5.13 % 6,246 5.62 % 6,575 Investment results of other entities and operations(2) 219 118 207 Total investment income $ 6,554 $ 6,364 $ 6,782 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for fixed maturities and short term investments and cash equivalents are calculated net of liabilities and rebate expenses corresponding to securities lending activity. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets. Prior periods yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. (2) Includes investment income of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. The decrease in net investment income yield attributable to the Financial Services Businesses general account excluding the Japanese operations portfolio for 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in fixed maturity yields as a result of lower interest rates on floating rate investments from rate resets and lower fixed maturity reinvestment rates partially offset by an increase in other investment yields driven by favorable joint venture and limited partnership earnings driven by appreciation on the underlying assets. The decrease in net investment income yield attributable to the non Japanese operations portion of the Financial Services Businesses portfolio for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in fixed maturity yields as a result of lower interest rates on floating rate investments from rate resets and a shift in asset mix stemming from enterprise risk constraints. Short term yields also decreased as a result of lower short term rates. 181 Table of Contents The following tables set forth the income yield and investment income, excluding realized investment gains (losses) and non hedge accounting derivative results, for each major investment category of our Japanese operations general account for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount Yield(1) Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 2.81 % $ 1,733 2.88 % $ 1,519 2.95 % $ 1,314 Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities 1.98 26 1.97 22 2.10 23 Equity securities 2.84 44 3.13 58 2.91 73 Commercial mortgage and other loans 4.63 175 4.85 167 4.76 144 Policy loans 3.85 72 3.91 63 3.92 50 Short term investments and cash equivalents 0.24 4 0.62 11 2.26 21 Other investments 6.01 132 6.27 129 8.77 139 Gross investment income before investment expenses 2.97 2,186 3.05 1,969 3.21 1,764 Investment expenses (0.15 ) (112 ) (0.16 ) (108 ) (0.19 ) (107 ) Total investment income 2.82 % $ 2,074 2.89 % $ 1,861 3.02 % $ 1,657 (1) Yields are based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and securities lending activity. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for fixed maturities and short term investments and cash equivalents are calculated net of liabilities and rebate expenses corresponding to securities lending activity. Yields exclude investment income on assets other than those included in invested assets. Prior periods yields are presented on a basis consistent with the current period presentation. The decrease in yield on the Japanese insurance portfolio for 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily attributable to lower fixed maturity reinvestment rates and a lower short term interest rate environment both in the U.S. and Japan, as well less favorable results in joint ventures and limited partnerships. The decrease in yield on the Japanese insurance portfolio for 2009 compared to 2008 is primarily attributable to lower fixed maturity reinvestment rates, including the reinvestment of proceeds realized from certain capital actions and a lower short term interest rate environment both in the U.S. and Japan. The U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts provide a yield that is substantially higher than the yield on comparable Japanese fixed maturities. The average value of U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities that are not hedged to yen through third party derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2010, and 2009, was approximately $12.3 billion and $10.4 billion, respectively, based on amortized cost. For additional information regarding U.S. dollar investments held in our Japanese insurance operations see, Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Mix Our fixed maturity securities portfolio consists of publicly traded and privately placed debt securities across an array of industry categories. The fixed maturity securities relating to our international insurance operations are primarily comprised of foreign government securities. We manage our public portfolio to a risk profile directed or overseen by the Asset Liability Management and Risk Management groups and to a profile that also reflects the local market environments impacting both our domestic and international insurance portfolios. The investment objectives for fixed maturity securities are consistent with those described above. The total return that we earn on the portfolio will be reflected both as investment income and also as realized gains or losses on investments. 182 Table of Contents We use our private placement and asset backed portfolios to enhance the diversification and yield of our overall fixed maturity portfolio. Within our domestic portfolios, we maintain a private fixed income portfolio that is larger than the industry average as a percentage of total fixed income holdings. Over the last several years, our investment staff has originated the majority of our annual private placement originations through direct borrower relationships. Our origination capability offers the opportunity to lead transactions and gives us the opportunity for better terms, including covenants and call protection, and to take advantage of innovative deal structures. As of December 31, 2010, our consolidated direct exposure to the sovereign and local government debt of Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain was in aggregate approximately $423 million, based on amortized cost, substantially all within the Financial Services Businesses and primarily representing Italian government securities owned by Prudentials Italian insurance operations. As of December 31, 2010, our consolidated direct investment exposure in Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Israel, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, and Tunisia was in aggregate approximately $450 million, based on amortized cost, primarily within the Financial Services Businesses, and included approximately $120 million representing investment exposure in Israel. We had no direct investment exposure in Egypt as of December 31, 2010. Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Date The following table sets forth the breakdown of the amortized cost of our fixed maturity securities portfolio in total by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2010. December 31, 2010 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business AmortizedCost % of Total AmortizedCost % of Total ($ in millions) Corporate & government securities: Maturing in 2011 $ 4,601 3.1 % $ 1,871 4.3 % Maturing in 2012 5,448 3.7 1,949 4.5 Maturing in 2013 7,530 5.1 2,375 5.5 Maturing in 2014 8,018 5.4 1,733 4.0 Maturing in 2015 7,099 4.8 1,809 4.1 Maturing in 2016 5,956 4.0 1,524 3.5 Maturing in 2017 6,754 4.6 1,625 3.7 Maturing in 2018 5,982 4.1 1,915 4.4 Maturing in 2019 5,429 3.7 1,726 4.0 Maturing in 2020 5,157 3.5 1,696 3.9 Maturing in 2021 3,146 2.1 21 0.1 Maturing in 2022 and beyond 57,880 39.3 14,766 33.9 Total corporate & government securities 123,000 83.4 33,010 75.9 Asset backed securities 8,790 6.0 4,570 10.5 Commercial mortgage backed securities 8,142 5.5 3,615 8.3 Residential mortgage backed securities 7,504 5.1 2,311 5.3 Total fixed maturities $ 147,436 100.0 % $ 43,506 100.0 % 183 Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Securities and Unrealized Gains and Losses by Industry Category The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Industry(1) AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(2) GrossUnrealizedLosses(2) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(2) GrossUnrealizedLosses(2) FairValue (in millions) Corporate securities: Manufacturing $ 21,590 $ 1,538 $ 539 $ 22,589 $ 19,959 $ 1,007 $ 669 $ 20,297 Utilities 11,153 851 179 11,825 10,778 604 246 11,136 Finance 11,213 385 331 11,267 10,500 236 542 10,194 Services 10,170 612 333 10,449 8,841 380 459 8,762 Energy 5,356 364 168 5,552 4,749 263 186 4,826 Retail and Wholesale 4,110 214 138 4,186 3,405 144 144 3,405 Transportation 3,625 240 62 3,803 3,479 168 82 3,565 Other 1,359 62 62 1,359 959 16 77 898 Total corporate securities(3) 68,576 4,266 1,812 71,030 62,670 2,818 2,405 63,083 Foreign government(3)(4) 48,016 2,915 86 50,845 40,885 1,525 133 42,277 Residential mortgage backed 7,504 397 51 7,850 9,547 345 88 9,804 Asset backed securities(5) 8,790 168 969 7,989 8,855 119 1,444 7,530 Commercial mortgage backed 8,142 592 63 8,671 7,747 251 170 7,828 U.S. Government 4,807 464 67 5,204 4,389 313 122 4,580 State & Municipal(6) 1,601 24 52 1,573 799 16 27 788 Total(7)(8) $ 147,436 $ 8,826 $ 3,100 $ 153,162 $ 134,892 $ 5,387 $ 4,389 $ 135,890 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) Includes $320 million of gross unrealized gains and $68 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010, compared to $211 million of gross unrealized gains and $133 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009 on securities classified as held to maturity. (3) Includes reclassifications of prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation. (4) As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, based on amortized cost, 83% and 84%, respectively, represent Japanese government bonds held by our Japanese insurance operations, with no other individual country representing more than 8% of the balance. (5) Includes securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. See Asset Backed Securities below. (6) Includes securities related to the Build America Bonds program. (7) Excluded from the above are securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding investments held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. (8) The table above excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. See Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Trading Account Assets for additional information. The change in unrealized gains and losses from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, was primarily due to a net decrease in interest rates, mainly the result of risk free rates. 184 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses. Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Industry(1) AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Corporate securities: Manufacturing $ 7,940 $ 754 $ 66 $ 8,628 $ 8,191 $ 500 $ 142 $ 8,549 Utilities 5,566 510 42 6,034 5,773 358 78 6,053 Services 4,562 377 35 4,904 4,346 241 97 4,490 Finance 2,723 125 53 2,795 3,354 91 59 3,386 Energy 1,887 184 6 2,065 1,926 132 17 2,041 Retail and Wholesale 1,641 166 21 1,786 1,621 123 22 1,722 Transportation 1,349 102 19 1,432 1,430 74 42 1,462 Other 29 2 0 31 0 0 0 0 Total corporate securities 25,697 2,220 242 27,675 26,641 1,519 457 27,703 Asset backed securities(2) 4,570 60 701 3,929 4,602 36 1,048 3,590 Commercial mortgage backed 3,615 170 6 3,779 3,662 47 47 3,662 U.S. Government 6,066 197 228 6,035 3,821 71 247 3,645 Residential mortgage backed 2,311 129 15 2,425 2,571 117 40 2,648 Foreign government(3) 596 90 9 677 637 69 9 697 State & Municipal 651 19 13 657 590 12 16 586 Total(4) $ 43,506 $ 2,885 $ 1,214 $ 45,177 $ 42,524 $ 1,871 $ 1,864 $ 42,531 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. (2) Includes securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. See Asset Backed Securities below. (3) As of both December 31, 2010 and 2009, based on amortized cost, no individual foreign country represented more than 8% of the balance. (4) The table above excludes fixed maturity securities classified as trading. See Other Trading Account Assets for additional information. The change in unrealized gains and losses from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, was primarily due to a net decrease in interest rates, mainly the result of risk free rates. Asset Backed Securities Included within asset backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses are securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. While there is no market standard definition, we define sub prime mortgages as residential mortgages that are originated to weaker quality obligors as indicated by weaker credit scores, as well as mortgages with higher loan to value ratios, or limited documentation. The significant deterioration of the U.S. housing market, high interest rate resets, higher unemployment levels, and relaxed underwriting standards for some originators of sub prime mortgages have led to higher delinquency rates, particularly for those mortgages issued in 2006 and 2007. Recently there has been significant attention given to potential deficiencies in lenders foreclosure documentation, causing delays in the foreclosure process. Many lenders have indicated that the issues are administrative and they do not expect significant delays in their foreclosure proceedings. From the perspective of an investor in securities backed by sub prime collateral, any significant delays in foreclosure proceedings could result in increased servicing costs which could negatively impact the value of the impacted securities. Separately, as an investor in sub prime securities, we are evaluating our legal options with respect to potential remedies arising from any potential deficiencies related to the original lending and securitization practices. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our asset backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). 185 Table of Contents Asset Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2010 TotalDecember 31,2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1): 2010 2008 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 2007 1 10 3 6 318 338 418 2006 3 23 14 38 346 424 790 2005 0 4 0 0 5 9 16 2004 & Prior 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total enhanced short term portfolio 4 37 17 44 669 771 1,224 All other portfolios: 2010 2008 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2007 3 3 1 0 259 266 291 2006 10 77 35 20 924 1,066 1,254 2005 1 28 29 34 344 436 489 2004 & Prior 35 171 137 147 395 885 1,012 Total all other portfolios 49 279 202 201 1,922 2,653 3,046 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(2) 53 316 219 245 2,591 3,424 4,270 Other asset backed securities: Externally managed investments in the European market 0 0 0 527 61 588 510 Collateralized by auto loans 910 5 0 16 0 931 578 Collateralized by credit cards 578 0 8 425 3 1,014 1,153 Collateralized by non sub prime mortgages 1,232 81 9 33 18 1,373 1,301 Other asset backed securities(3) 319 757 124 71 189 1,460 1,043 Total asset backed securities(4) $ 3,092 $ 1,159 $ 360 $ 1,317 $ 2,862 $ 8,790 $ 8,855 186 Table of Contents Asset Backed Securities at Fair Value Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2010 TotalDecember 31,2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalFair Value (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1): 2010 2008 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 2007 1 10 3 6 235 255 300 2006 3 23 13 37 284 360 655 2005 0 4 0 0 4 8 15 2004 & Prior 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total enhanced short term portfolio 4 37 16 43 523 623 970 All other portfolios: 2010 2008 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2007 3 3 0 0 152 158 182 2006 7 66 24 19 648 764 838 2005 2 25 26 25 260 338 297 2004 & Prior 31 143 112 116 269 671 693 Total all other portfolios 43 237 162 160 1,329 1,931 2,010 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages 47 274 178 203 1,852 2,554 2,980 Other asset backed securities: Externally managed investments in the European market 0 0 0 554 65 619 530 Collateralized by auto loans 912 5 0 16 0 933 580 Collateralized by credit cards 615 0 7 414 3 1,039 1,161 Collateralized by non sub prime mortgages 1,283 82 9 31 16 1,421 1,307 Other asset backed securities(3) 320 741 123 70 169 1,423 972 Total asset backed securities(4) $ 3,177 $ 1,102 $ 317 $ 1,288 $ 2,105 $ 7,989 $ 7,530 (1) Our enhanced short term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, commercial paper issuances and cash generated from certain trading and operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired. (2) Included within the $3.4 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as of December 31, 2010 are $266 million of securities collateralized by second lien exposures. (3) As of December 31, 2010, includes collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $81 million and fair value of $87 million, with none secured by sub prime mortgages. Also includes asset backed securities collateralized by education loans, equipment leases, franchises, timeshares, and aircraft. (4) Excluded from the tables above are asset backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding asset backed securities held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. Also excluded from the table above are asset backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. See Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Other Trading Account Assets for additional information regarding these securities. The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2010, including Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch. In making our investment decisions, rather than relying solely on the rating agencies evaluations, we assign internal ratings to our asset backed securities based upon our dedicated asset backed securities units independent evaluation of the underlying collateral and securitization structure, including any guarantees from monoline bond insurers. On an amortized cost basis, asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses decreased from $4.270 billion as of December 31, 2009, to $3.424 billion as of December 31, 2010, primarily reflecting principal paydowns and other than temporary impairments recognized. Gross unrealized losses related to our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $882 million as of December 31, 2010, and $1.293 billion as of December 31, 2009. For additional information regarding other than temporary impairments of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. For 187 Table of Contents information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, excluding those supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, was 29% as of December 31, 2010. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. As of December 31, 2010, based on amortized cost, approximately 64% of the asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 41% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $3.424 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2010 were $767 million of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities. Included within asset backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business are securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, as defined above. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our asset backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). Asset Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2010 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost TotalDecember 31,2009 (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1): 2010 2008 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 2007 4 10 3 6 235 258 303 2006 3 27 15 44 301 390 672 2005 2 5 0 0 5 12 17 2004 & Prior 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total enhanced short term portfolio 9 42 18 50 541 660 992 All other portfolios: 2010 2008 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2007 5 0 20 7 224 256 307 2006 96 0 1 0 771 868 1,043 2005 11 103 57 15 157 343 380 2004 & Prior 21 218 36 64 291 630 713 Total all other portfolios 133 321 114 86 1,443 2,097 2,443 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(2) 142 363 132 136 1,984 2,757 3,435 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by credit cards 344 0 37 259 2 642 549 Collateralized by auto loans 396 0 0 0 0 396 123 Externally managed investments in the European market 0 0 0 212 0 212 198 Collateralized by education loans 181 20 0 0 0 201 101 Other asset backed securities(3) 124 150 35 3 50 362 196 Total asset backed securities $ 1,187 $ 533 $ 204 $ 610 $ 2,036 $ 4,570 $ 4,602 188 Table of Contents Asset Backed Securities at Fair Value Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2010 TotalDecember 31,2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalFair Value (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: Enhanced short term portfolio(1): 2010 2008 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 2007 4 10 3 6 179 202 224 2006 3 27 15 42 252 339 565 2005 1 5 0 0 4 10 15 2004 & Prior 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total enhanced short term portfolio 8 42 18 48 435 551 804 All other portfolios: 2010 2008 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2007 5 0 14 4 146 169 194 2006 75 0 1 1 508 585 672 2005 11 96 45 13 111 276 255 2004 & Prior 19 182 31 52 225 509 522 Total all other portfolios 110 278 91 70 990 1,539 1,643 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages 118 320 109 118 1,425 2,090 2,447 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by credit cards 355 0 34 258 2 649 538 Collateralized by auto loans 397 0 0 0 0 397 124 Externally managed investments in the European market 0 0 0 243 0 243 218 Collateralized by education loans 182 14 0 0 0 196 94 Other asset backed securities(3) 125 148 36 3 42 354 169 Total asset backed securities(4) $ 1,177 $ 482 $ 179 $ 622 $ 1,469 $ 3,929 $ 3,590 (1) Our enhanced short term portfolio is used primarily to invest cash proceeds of securities lending and repurchase activities, and cash generated from certain trading and operating activities. The investment policy statement of this portfolio requires that securities purchased for this portfolio have a remaining expected average life of 2 years or less when acquired. (2) Included within the $2.8 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages as of December 31, 2010 are $60 million of securities collateralized by second lien exposures. (3) As of December 31, 2010, includes collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $34 million and fair value of $33 million, with none secured by sub prime mortgages. Also includes asset backed securities collateralized by franchises, timeshares, manufacturing and aircraft. (4) Excluded from the table above are asset backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. For additional information see Other Trading Account Assets. On an amortized cost basis, asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business decreased from $3.435 billion as of December 31, 2009 to $2.757 billion as of December 31, 2010, primarily reflecting principal paydowns and other than temporary impairments recognized. Gross unrealized losses related to our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business were $673 million as of December 31, 2010 and $988 million as of December 31, 2009. For additional information regarding other than temporary impairments of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. For information regarding the methodology used in determining the fair value of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business, excluding those supported by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, was 31% as of December 31, 2010. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. As of December 31, 2010, 189 Table of Contents based on amortized cost, approximately 70% of the asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 43% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $2.757 billion of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2010, were $763 million of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities. Residential Mortgage Backed Securities The following table sets forth the amortized cost of our residential mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2010. Residential Mortgage Backed Securities at Amortized Cost December 31, 2010 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business AmortizedCost % of Total AmortizedCost % of Total ($ in millions) By security type: Agency pass through securities(1) $ 7,442 99.2 % $ 2,055 88.9 % Collateralized mortgage obligations(2)(3) 62 0.8 256 11.1 Total residential mortgage backed securities $ 7,504 100.0 % $ 2,311 100.0 % Portion rated Aaa/AAA(4) $ 7,413 98.8 % $ 2,074 89.7 % December 31, 2009 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business AmortizedCost % of Total AmortizedCost % of Total ($ in millions) By security type: Agency pass through securities(1) $ 9,475 99.2 % $ 2,266 88.1 % Collateralized mortgage obligations(2)(3) 72 0.8 305 11.9 Total residential mortgage backed securities $ 9,547 100.0 % $ 2,571 100.0 % Portion rated Aaa/AAA(4) $ 9,445 98.9 % $ 2,299 89.4 % (1) As of December 31, 2010, of these securities, for the Financial Services Businesses, $5.954 billion are supported by U.S. government and $1.488 billion are supported by foreign government. As of December 31, 2009, of these securities, for the Financial Services Businesses, $7.865 billion were supported by the U.S. government and $1.610 billion were supported by foreign government. For the Closed Block Business all of these securities are supported by the U.S. government as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. (2) Includes alternative residential mortgage loans of $46 million and $39 million in the Financial Services Businesses, and $108 million and $125 million in the Closed Block Business, for 2010 and 2009, respectively. (3) As of December 31, 2010, of these collateralized mortgage obligations, for the Financial Services Businesses, 38% have credit ratings of A or above, 7% have BBB credit ratings and the remaining 55% have below investment grade ratings, and as of December 31, 2009, 43% have credit ratings of A or above, 16% have BBB credit ratings and the remaining 41% have below investment grade ratings. As of December 31, 2010, for the Closed Block Business, 39% have A credit ratings or above, 35% have BBB credit ratings, and 26% have below investment grade ratings, and as of December 31, 2009, 58% have A credit ratings or above, and 42% have below investment grade ratings. (4) Based on lowest external rating agency rating. 190 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Weakness in commercial real estate fundamentals, along with an overall decrease in liquidity and availability of capital have led to a very difficult refinancing environment and an increase in the overall delinquency rate on commercial mortgages in the commercial mortgage backed securities market. Despite an otherwise stabilizing economy, job growth, a key factor in driving demand for commercial real estate, remains weak. However, the pace of deterioration has slowed and prices of commercial real estate appear to have bottomed. There were signs of improvement in commercial real estate fundamentals in 2010 such as vacancy rates declining from their peak and positive rent growth. In addition, we have observed several market factors related to commercial mortgage backed securities issued in 2006 and 2007, including less stringent underwriting, higher levels of leverage and collateral valuations that are generally no longer realizable. To ensure our investment objectives and asset strategies are maintained, we consider these market factors in making our investment decisions on securities in these vintages. The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2010 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost TotalDecember 31,2009 (in millions) 2010 $ 89 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 89 $ 0 2009 117 0 0 0 0 117 0 2008 182 0 3 16 62 263 331 2007 1,934 0 0 0 36 1,970 1,705 2006 2,956 282 63 0 6 3,307 3,145 2005 1,609 32 0 2 0 1,643 1,560 2004 & Prior 590 106 32 15 10 753 1,006 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(2)(3)(4) $ 7,477 $ 420 $ 98 $ 33 $ 114 $ 8,142 $ 7,747 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Fair Value Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2010 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalFair Value TotalDecember 31,2009 (in millions) 2010 $ 90 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 90 $ 0 2009 118 0 0 0 0 118 0 2008 192 0 3 15 52 262 306 2007 2,021 0 0 0 49 2,070 1,729 2006 3,185 309 67 0 6 3,567 3,190 2005 1,748 34 0 2 1 1,785 1,614 2004 & Prior 620 109 31 11 8 779 989 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(2)(3)(4) $ 7,974 $ 452 $ 101 $ 28 $ 116 $ 8,671 $ 7,828 (1) The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2010, including Standard & Poors, Moodys, Fitch and Realpoint. (2) Excluded from the table above are available for sale commercial mortgage backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage backed securities held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value. See Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities for additional information regarding these securities. 191 Table of Contents (3) Included in the table above as of December 31, 2010 are downgraded super senior securities with amortized cost of $359 million in AA and $63 million in A. (4) Included in the table above as of December 31, 2010 are agency commercial mortgage backed securities with amortized cost of $221 million all rated AAA. Included in the table above are commercial mortgage backed securities collateralized by Non U.S. properties all related to Japanese commercial mortgage backed securities held by our Japanese insurance operations with an amortized cost of $12 million in AAA, $3 million in A, $18 million in BBB and $104 million in BB and below as of December 31, 2010, and $12 million in AAA, $20 million in A, $97 million in BBB and $203 million in BB and below as of December 31, 2009. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 32% as of December 31, 2010. The subordination percentage represents the current weighted average estimated percentage of the capital structure subordinated to our investment holding that is available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first dollar loss of principal. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage includes an adjustment for that portion of the capital structure, which has been effectively defeased by U.S. Treasury securities. As of December 31, 2010, based on amortized cost, approximately 97% of the commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 80% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. The following tables set forth the weighted average estimated subordination percentage, adjusted for that portion of the capital structure which has been effectively defeased by U.S. Treasury securities, of our commercial mortgage backed securities collateralized by U.S. and Non U.S. properties, attributable to the Financial Services Businesses based on amortized cost as of December 31, 2010, by rating and vintage. U.S. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2010 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1)(2) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow 2010 0 % 2009 0 % 2008 32 % 0 % 0 % 0 % 2007 30 % 0 % 2006 31 % 33 % 31 % 0 % 2005 31 % 32 % 0 % 0 % 2004 & Prior 34 % 33 % 40 % 8 % 25 % Non U.S. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2010 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1)(2) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow 2010 2009 2008 40 % 31 % 28 % 2007 0 % 35 % 2006 64 % 36 % 2005 59 % 16 % 2004 & Prior 0 % (1) The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2010, including Standard & Poors, Moodys, Fitch, and Realpoint. (2) Excludes agency commercial mortgage backed securities. 192 Table of Contents The super senior structure was introduced to the U.S. commercial mortgage backed securities market in late 2004 and was modified in early 2005 to increase subordination from 20% to 30%. With the changes to the commercial mortgage backed securities structure in 2005, there became three distinct AAA classes for commercial mortgage backed securities with fixed rate terms, (1) super senior AAA with 30% subordination, (2) mezzanine AAA with 20% subordination and (3) junior AAA with approximately 14% subordination. The super senior class has priority over the mezzanine and junior classes to all principal cash flows (repayments, prepayments and recoveries on defaulted loans). As a result, all super senior bonds must be completely repaid before the mezzanine or junior bonds receive any principal cash flows. In addition, the super senior bonds will not experience any loss of principal until both the entire mezzanine and junior bonds are written down to zero. We believe the importance of this additional credit enhancement afforded to the super senior class over the mezzanine and junior classes is limited in a benign commercial real estate cycle with low defaults but becomes more significant in a deep commercial real estate downturn under which expected losses increase substantially. In addition to enhanced subordination, certain securities within the super senior class benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows. The super senior class is generally structured such that shorter duration time tranches have priority over longer duration time tranches as to all principal cash flows (repayments, prepayments, and recoveries on defaulted loans) until the deal reaches 30% cumulative net loss, at which point all super senior securities are paid pro rata. As a result, short of reaching 30% cumulative net losses, the shorter duration super senior tranches must be completely repaid before the longest duration super senior tranche receives any principal cash flows. We have generally focused our purchases of recent vintage commercial mortgage backed securities on shorter duration super senior tranches that we believe have sufficient priority to ensure that in most scenarios our positions will be fully repaid prior to the structure reaching the 30% cumulative net loss threshold. The following tables set forth the amortized cost of our AAA commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated, by type and by year of issuance (vintage). AAA Rated Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Amortized Cost by Type and Vintage Financial Services Businesses Vintage December 31, 2010 Super Senior AAA Structures Other AAA SuperSenior(shorterdurationtranches) SuperSenior(longestdurationtranches) Mezzanine Junior OtherSenior OtherSubordinate Other Total AAASecurities atAmortizedCost (in millions) 2010 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 20 $ 0 $ 0 $ 20 2009 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2008 182 0 0 0 0 0 0 182 2007 1,899 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,899 2006 1,825 1,119 0 0 0 0 12 2,956 2005 625 972 0 0 0 1 11 1,609 2004 & Prior 29 157 0 0 235 164 5 590 Total (1) $ 4,560 $ 2,248 $ 0 $ 0 $ 255 $ 165 $ 28 $ 7,256 (1) Excludes agency commercial mortgage backed securities of $221 million. 193 Table of Contents The following tables set forth the amortized cost and fair value of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2010 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost TotalDecember 31,2009 (in millions) 2010 $ 5 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 5 $ 0 2009 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2008 9 0 0 0 0 9 15 2007 701 0 0 0 4 705 435 2006 799 63 11 0 0 873 852 2005 1,197 22 0 0 0 1,219 1,270 2004 & Prior 738 33 29 1 3 804 1,090 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(2) $ 3,449 $ 118 $ 40 $ 1 $ 7 $ 3,615 $ 3,662 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Fair Value Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2010 Lowest Rating Agency Rating(1) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue TotalDecember 31,2009 (in millions) 2010 $ 5 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 5 $ 0 2009 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2008 10 0 0 0 0 10 15 2007 724 0 0 0 7 731 442 2006 843 68 12 0 0 923 842 2005 1,253 24 0 0 0 1,277 1,274 2004 & Prior 768 32 29 1 3 833 1,089 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(2) $ 3,603 $ 124 $ 41 $ 1 $ 10 $ 3,779 $ 3,662 (1) The tables above provide ratings as assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies as of December 31, 2010, including Standard & Poors, Moodys, Fitch, and Realpoint. (2) Included in the table above as of December 31, 2010 are downgraded super senior securities with amortized cost of $87 million in AA and $11 million in A. The weighted average estimated subordination percentage of commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business was 31% as of December 31, 2010. See above for a definition of this percentage. As of December 31, 2010, based on amortized cost, approximately 95% of the commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business have estimated credit subordination percentages of 20% or more, and 62% have estimated credit subordination percentages of 30% or more. The following tables set forth the weighted average estimated subordination percentage, adjusted for that portion of the capital structure which has been effectively defeased by US Treasury securities, of our commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business based on amortized cost as of December 31, 2010, by rating and vintage. 194 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Subordination Percentages by Rating and Vintage Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2010 Lowest Rating Agency Rating AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow 2010 2009 2008 31 % 2007 30 % 5 % 2006 30 % 32 % 30 % 2005 31 % 32 % 2004 & Prior 32 % 22 % 43 % 10 % 66 % As discussed above, with the changes to the commercial mortgage backed securities market in late 2004 and early 2005, there are now three distinct AAA classes for commercial mortgage backed securities with fixed rate terms, (1) super senior AAA with 30% subordination, (2) mezzanine AAA with 20% subordination and (3) junior AAA with approximately 14% subordination. In addition to the enhanced subordination, certain securities within the super senior class benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows. The following table sets forth the amortized cost our AAA commercial mortgage backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated, by type and by year of issuance (vintage). AAA Rated Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Amortized Cost by Type and Vintage Closed Block Business Vintage December 31, 2010 Super Senior AAA Structures Other AAA SuperSenior(shorterdurationtranches) SuperSenior(longestdurationtranches) Mezzanine Junior OtherSenior OtherSubordinate Other Total AAASecurities atAmortizedCost (in millions) 2010 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 5 $ 0 $ 0 $ 5 2009 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2008 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 9 2007 701 0 0 0 0 0 0 701 2006 687 95 0 0 0 0 17 799 2005 972 225 0 0 0 0 0 1,197 2004 & Prior 50 11 0 0 601 75 1 738 Total $ 2,419 $ 331 $ 0 $ 0 $ 606 $ 75 $ 18 $ 3,449 Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality The Securities Valuation Office, or SVO, of the NAIC, evaluates the investments of insurers for statutory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called NAIC Designations. In general, NAIC designations of 1 highest quality, or 2 high quality, include fixed maturities considered investment grade, which include securities rated Baa3 or higher by Moodys or BBB or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC Designations of 3 through 6 generally include fixed maturities referred to as below investment grade, which include securities rated Ba1 or lower by Moodys and BB+ or lower by Standard & Poors. However, in the fourth quarter of 2009 the NAIC adopted rules which changed the methodology for determining the NAIC Designations for non agency residential mortgage backed securities, including our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Under the new rules, rather than being based on the rating of a third party rating agency, as of December 31, 2009 the NAIC Designations for such securities are based on security level expected losses as modeled by an independent third party (engaged by the NAIC) and the statutory carrying value of the security, including any purchase discounts or impairment charges previously recognized. The modeled results used in determining NAIC designations as of December 31, 2009, were updated and utilized for reporting as of December 31, 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the NAIC adopted rules which changed the 195 Table of Contents methodology for determining the NAIC designations for commercial mortgage backed securities, similar to what was done in the fourth quarter of 2009 for residential mortgage backed securities. As a result of time lags between the funding of investments, the finalization of legal documents and the completion of the SVO filing process, the fixed maturity portfolio generally includes securities that have not yet been rated by the SVO as of each balance sheet date. Pending receipt of SVO ratings, the categorization of these securities by NAIC designation is based on the expected ratings indicated by internal analysis. Investments of our international insurance companies are not subject to NAIC guidelines. Investments of our Japanese insurance operations are regulated locally by the Financial Services Agency, an agency of the Japanese government. The Financial Services Agency has its own investment quality criteria and risk control standards. Our Japanese insurance companies comply with the Financial Services Agencys credit quality review and risk monitoring guidelines. The credit quality ratings of the investments of our Japanese insurance companies are based on ratings assigned by nationally recognized credit rating agencies, including Moodys, Standard & Poors, or rating equivalents based on ratings assigned by Japanese credit ratings agencies. The amortized cost of our public and private fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating totaled $8.7 billion, or 6%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2010 and $9.6 billion, or 7%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2009. Fixed maturities considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating represented 27% and 29% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, the amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses, based on the lowest of external rating agency ratings, totaled $10.0 billion, or 7%, of the total fixed maturities, and include securities considered high or highest quality by the NAIC based on the new rules for residential mortgage backed securities described above. The amortized cost of our public and private fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating totaled $5.6 billion, or 13%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2010 and $6.7 billion, or 16%, of the total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2009. Fixed maturities considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating represented 44% of the gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2010, compared to 41% of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, the amortized cost of our public and private below investment grade fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business, based on the lowest of external rating agency ratings, totaled $6.6 billion, or 15%, of the total fixed maturities, and include securities considered high or highest quality by the NAIC based on the new rules for residential mortgage backed securities described above. 196 Table of Contents Public Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. Public Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses (1) (2) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 105,068 $ 6,278 $ 1,240 $ 110,106 $ 94,368 $ 3,767 $ 1,845 $ 96,290 2 14,129 892 585 14,436 14,682 699 790 14,591 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 119,197 7,170 1,825 124,542 109,050 4,466 2,635 110,881 3 2,753 100 208 2,645 2,743 44 314 2,473 4 1,067 24 206 885 1,657 22 345 1,334 5 630 21 211 440 685 19 202 502 6 271 28 89 210 197 25 69 153 Subtotal Other Securities(4) 4,721 173 714 4,180 5,282 110 930 4,462 Total Public Fixed Maturities $ 123,918 $ 7,343 $ 2,539 $ 128,722 $ 114,332 $ 4,576 $ 3,565 $ 115,343 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 17 securities with amortized cost of $11 million (fair value, $20 million) and 19 securities with amortized cost of $177 million (fair value, $175 million), respectively, that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $272 million of gross unrealized gains and $67 million gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010, compared to $195 million of gross unrealized gains and $129 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009 on securities classified as held to maturity. (4) On amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2010 includes $137 million in emerging markets securities and $112 million in securitized bank loans. The following table sets forth our public fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. Public Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business (1) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 21,965 $ 1,075 $ 551 $ 22,489 $ 20,374 $ 656 $ 853 $ 20,177 2 4,842 423 88 5,177 5,732 308 187 5,853 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 26,807 1,498 639 27,666 26,106 964 1,040 26,030 3 1,547 73 77 1,543 1,903 56 133 1,826 4 1,031 27 201 857 1,552 20 334 1,238 5 527 17 176 368 460 19 125 354 6 58 20 13 65 77 22 10 89 Subtotal Other Securities(2) 3,163 137 467 2,833 3,992 117 602 3,507 Total Public Fixed Maturities $ 29,970 $ 1,635 $ 1,106 $ 30,499 $ 30,098 $ 1,081 $ 1,642 $ 29,537 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 15 securities with amortized cost of $9 million (fair value, $10 million) and 20 securities with amortized cost of $13 million (fair value, $8 million), respectively, that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (2) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2010, includes $446 million in securitized bank loans and $224 million in emerging markets securities. 197 Table of Contents Private Fixed Maturities Credit Quality The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. Private Fixed Maturity Securities Financial Services Businesses (1)(2) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 6,226 $ 511 $ 90 $ 6,647 $ 5,795 $ 259 $ 121 $ 5,933 2 13,264 792 341 13,715 10,485 452 379 10,558 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 19,490 1,303 431 20,362 16,280 711 500 16,491 3 2,467 104 63 2,508 2,292 52 131 2,213 4 948 26 44 930 1,193 18 118 1,093 5 518 21 17 522 482 6 36 452 6 95 29 6 118 313 24 39 298 Subtotal Other Securities(4) 4,028 180 130 4,078 4,280 100 324 4,056 Total Private Fixed Maturities $ 23,518 $ 1,483 $ 561 $ 24,440 $ 20,560 $ 811 $ 824 $ 20,547 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. (2) Includes, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 160 securities with amortized cost of $1,776 million (fair value, $1,800 million) and 138 securities with amortized cost of $1,117 million (fair value, $1,124 million), respectively, that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (3) Includes $47 million of gross unrealized gains and $1 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010, compared to $16 million of gross unrealized gains and $4 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009 on securities classified as held to maturity. (4) On an amortized cost basis, as December 31, 2010 includes $591 million in securitized bank loans and $215 million in commercial asset finance securities. The following table sets forth our private fixed maturity portfolios by NAIC designation attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. Private Fixed Maturity Securities Closed Block Business (1) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 3,702 $ 447 $ 11 $ 4,138 $ 3,091 $ 247 $ 13 $ 3,325 2 7,386 711 35 8,062 6,632 467 41 7,058 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 11,088 1,158 46 12,200 9,723 714 54 10,383 3 1,292 67 21 1,338 1,354 55 72 1,337 4 803 12 23 792 923 12 65 870 5 307 6 16 297 269 4 14 259 6 46 7 2 51 157 5 17 145 Subtotal Other Securities(2) 2,448 92 62 2,478 2,703 76 168 2,611 Total Private Fixed Maturities $ 13,536 $ 1,250 $ 108 $ 14,678 $ 12,426 $ 790 $ 222 $ 12,994 (1) Includes, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 103 securities with amortized cost of $1,523 million (fair value, $1,506 million) and 85 securities with amortized cost of $1,358 million (fair value, $1,375 million), respectively, that have been categorized based on expected NAIC designations pending receipt of SVO ratings. (2) On an amortized cost basis, as of December 31, 2010, includes $389 million in securitized bank loans and $289 million in commercial asset finance securities. 198 Table of Contents Corporate Securities Credit Quality The following table sets forth both our public and private corporate securities by NAIC designation attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of the dates indicated. Corporate Securities Financial Services Businesses (1) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 36,486 $ 2,413 $ 645 $ 38,254 $ 32,244 $ 1,564 $ 812 $ 32,996 2 25,678 1,598 844 26,432 23,122 1,091 985 23,228 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 62,164 4,011 1,489 64,686 55,366 2,655 1,797 56,224 3 4,253 150 191 4,212 4,351 77 308 4,120 4 1,483 33 99 1,417 2,025 37 198 1,864 5 546 33 22 557 611 24 47 588 6 130 39 11 158 317 25 55 287 Subtotal Other Securities 6,412 255 323 6,344 7,304 163 608 6,859 Total Corporate Fixed Maturities(2) $ 68,576 $ 4,266 $ 1,812 $ 71,030 $ 62,670 $ 2,818 $ 2,405 $ 63,083 (1) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations. (2) Includes reclassifications of prior period amounts to conform to current period presentations. The following table sets forth our corporate securities by NAIC designation attributable to the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated. Corporate Securities Closed Block Business NAIC Designation December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 10,064 $ 951 $ 65 $ 10,950 $ 10,252 $ 606 $ 77 $ 10,781 2 11,505 1,080 65 12,520 11,431 751 122 12,060 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 21,569 2,031 130 23,470 21,683 1,357 199 22,841 3 2,309 115 31 2,393 2,720 87 108 2,699 4 1,320 35 55 1,300 1,627 29 102 1,554 5 422 19 22 419 415 22 26 411 6 77 20 4 93 196 24 22 198 Subtotal Other Securities 4,128 189 112 4,205 4,958 162 258 4,862 Total Corporate Fixed Maturities $ 25,697 $ 2,220 $ 242 $ 27,675 $ 26,641 $ 1,519 $ 457 $ 27,703 Credit Derivative Exposure to Public Fixed Maturities In addition to the credit exposure from public fixed maturities noted above, we sell credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments. In a credit derivative, we sell credit protection on an identified name, or a basket of names in a first to default structure, and in return receive a quarterly premium. With single name credit default derivatives, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced names public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With first to default 199 Table of Contents baskets, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named credits, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket. If there is an event of default by the referenced name or one of the referenced names in a basket, as defined by the agreement, then we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced defaulted security or similar security. Subsequent defaults on the remaining names within such instruments require no further payment to counterparties. The referenced names in the credit derivatives where we have sold credit protection, as well as all the counterparties to these agreements, are investment grade credit quality and our credit derivatives generally have maturities of five years or less. Credit derivative contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value, including the premium received, recorded in Realized investment gains (losses), net. The premium received for the credit derivatives we sell attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was $7 million and $10 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and is included in adjusted operating income as an adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. The following tables set forth our exposure where we have sold credit protection through credit derivatives in the Financial Services Businesses by NAIC rating of the underlying credits as of the dates indicated. Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2010 Single Name First to Default Basket(1) Total NAIC Designation Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 $ 290 $ 3 $ 0 $ 0 $ 290 $ 3 2 25 0 0 0 25 0 Subtotal 315 3 0 0 315 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 Subtotal 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total(2) $ 315 $ 3 $ 0 $ 0 $ 315 $ 3 Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2009 Single Name First to Default Basket(1) Total NAIC Designation Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 $ 295 $ 3 $ 140 $ 0 $ 435 $ 3 2 28 0 303 (3 ) 331 (3 ) Subtotal 323 3 443 (3 ) 766 0 3 0 0 132 (2 ) 132 (2 ) 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 50 (1 ) 50 (1 ) 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 Subtotal 0 0 182 (3 ) 182 (3 ) Total(2) $ 323 $ 3 $ 625 $ (6 ) $ 948 $ (3 ) (1) First to default credit swap baskets, which may include credits of varying qualities, are grouped above based on the lowest credit in the basket. However, such basket swaps may entail greater credit risk than the rating level of the lowest credit. 200 Table of Contents (2) Excludes a credit derivative related to surplus notes issued by a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance and embedded derivatives contained in certain externally managed investments in the European market. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these derivatives. The following tables set forth our exposure where we have sold credit protection through credit derivatives in the Closed Block Business portfolios by NAIC designation of the underlying credits as of the dates indicated. Credit Derivatives, Sold Protection Closed Block Business December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Single Name Single Name NAIC Designation Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value (in millions) 1 $ 5 $ 0 $ 28 $ 0 2 0 0 0 0 Subtotal 5 0 28 0 3 through 6 0 0 0 0 Total(1) $ 5 $ 0 $ 28 $ 0 (1) Excludes embedded derivatives contained in certain externally managed investments in the European market. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these derivatives. In addition to selling credit protection, we have purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio, including exposures relating to certain guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Financial Services Businesses had $1.785 billion and $1.852 billion of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a $2 million asset and a $113 million asset, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Closed Block Business had $399 million and $461 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a liability of $1 million and an asset of $61 million, respectively. The premium paid for the credit derivatives we purchase attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was $50 million and $52 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and is included in adjusted operating income as an adjustment to Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding credit derivatives and an overall description of our derivative activities. Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities, Greater than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 622 $ 136 $ 1,225 $ 267 Three months or greater but less than six months 751 169 714 175 Six months or greater but less than nine months 1,094 283 201 56 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 173 52 1,260 431 Greater than twelve months 2,503 908 4,533 1,517 Total $ 5,143 $ 1,548 $ 7,933 $ 2,446 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. 201 Table of Contents The gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in asset backed securities as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more of $1.548 billion as of December 31, 2010, includes $731 million relating to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2010, also includes $65 million of gross unrealized losses on securities with amortized cost of $107 million where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 50% or more, of which, $3 million was included in the less than three months timeframe, $4 million was included in the three months or greater but less than six months timeframe, $2 million was included in the six months or greater but less than nine months timeframe, $20 million was included in the nine months or greater but less than twelve months timeframe, and $36 million was included in the greater than twelve months timeframe. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the tables above as other than temporary impairments in earnings based on our detailed analysis of the underlying credit and cash flows on each of these securities. The gross unrealized losses are primarily attributable to general credit spread widening in the structured credit marketplace, liquidity discounts, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and we believe the recoverable value of these investments based on the expected future cash flows is greater than or equal to our remaining amortized cost. At December 31, 2010, we do not intend to sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before the anticipated recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. The following table sets forth the amortized cost and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Fixed Maturity Securities, Greater than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 173 $ 37 $ 408 $ 94 Three months or greater but less than six months 149 43 203 52 Six months or greater but less than nine months 70 16 18 7 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 73 22 859 306 Greater than twelve months 1,518 559 1,827 672 Total $ 1,983 $ 677 $ 3,315 $ 1,131 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below amortized cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. The gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in asset backed securities as of December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more of $677 million as of December 31, 2010, includes $561 million relating to asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2010, does not include any gross unrealized losses on securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 50% or more. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the tables above as other than temporary impairments in earnings based on our detailed analysis of the underlying credit and cash flows on each of these securities. The gross unrealized losses are primarily attributable to general credit spread widening in the structured credit marketplace and liquidity discounts, and we believe the recoverable value of these investments based on the expected future cash flows is greater than or equal to our remaining amortized cost. At December 31, 2010, we do not intend to sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be 202 Table of Contents required to sell these securities before the anticipated recovery of its remaining amortized cost basis. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities We maintain separate monitoring processes for public and private fixed maturities and create watch lists to highlight securities that require special scrutiny and management. Our public fixed maturity asset managers formally review all public fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and or company or industry specific concerns. For private placements, our credit and portfolio management processes help ensure prudent controls over valuation and management. We have separate pricing and authorization processes to establish checks and balances for new investments. We apply consistent standards of credit analysis and due diligence for all transactions, whether they originate through our own in house origination staff or through agents. Our regional offices closely monitor the portfolios in their regions. We set all valuation standards centrally, and we assess the fair value of all investments quarterly. Our private fixed maturity asset managers formally review all private fixed maturity holdings on a quarterly basis and more frequently when necessary to identify potential credit deterioration whether due to ratings downgrades, unexpected price variances, and or company or industry specific concerns. Fixed maturity securities classified as held to maturity are those securities where we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until maturity. These securities are reflected at amortized cost in our consolidated statements of financial position. Other fixed maturity securities are considered available for sale, and, as a result, we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent that amortized cost is different from estimated fair value. All held to maturity securities and all available for sale securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the reasons for the decline in value (credit event, currency or interest rate related, including general credit spread widening); the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer; and the extent and duration of the decline. In determining whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we place greater emphasis on our analysis of the underlying credit versus the extent and duration of a decline in value. Our credit analysis of an investment includes determining whether the issuer is current on its contractual payments, evaluating whether it is probable that we will be able to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the security, and analyzing our overall ability to recover the amortized cost of the investment. We continue to utilize valuation declines as a potential indicator of credit deterioration, and apply additional levels of scrutiny in our analysis as the severity and duration of the decline increases. In addition, we recognize an other than temporary impairment in earnings for a debt security in an unrealized loss position when (a) we have the intent to sell the debt security or (b) it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery or (c) a foreign currency denominated security with a foreign currency translation loss approaches maturity. For all debt securities in unrealized loss positions that do not meet any of these criteria, we analyze our ability to recover the amortized cost by comparing the net present value of our best estimate of projected future cash flows with the amortized cost of the security. If the net present value is less than the amortized cost of the investment, an other than temporary impairment is recorded. The determination of the assumptions used in these projections requires the use of significant management judgment. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these assumptions and our policies for recognizing other than temporary impairments for debt securities. 203 Table of Contents Other than temporary impairments of general account fixed maturity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses that were recognized in earnings were $564 million and $1.162 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Included in the other than temporary impairments of general account fixed maturities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, were $209 million and $668 million, respectively, of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business that were recognized in earnings were $168 million and $520 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Included in the other than temporary impairments of fixed maturities attributable to the Closed Block Business for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, were $133 million and $322 million, respectively, of other than temporary impairments on asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages. For a further discussion of other than temporary impairments, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities Certain products included in the Retirement and International Insurance segments, are experience rated, meaning that we expect the investment results associated with these products will ultimately accrue to contractholders. The investments supporting these experience rated products, excluding commercial mortgage and other loans, are classified as trading. These trading investments are reflected on the balance sheet as Trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments are reported in Asset management fees and other income, and excluded from adjusted operating income. Investment income for these investments is reported in Net investment income, and is included in adjusted operating income. The following table sets forth the composition of this portfolio as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Short term investments and cash equivalents $ 697 $ 697 $ 725 $ 725 Fixed maturities: Corporate securities 9,581 10,118 9,202 9,502 Commercial mortgage backed securities 2,352 2,407 1,899 1,893 Residential mortgage backed securities 1,350 1,363 1,434 1,432 Asset backed securities 1,158 1,030 1,022 857 Foreign government bonds 567 569 508 517 U.S. government authorities and agencies and obligations of U.S. states 467 448 169 159 Total fixed maturities 15,475 15,935 14,234 14,360 Equity securities 1,156 1,139 1,033 935 Total trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities $ 17,328 $ 17,771 $ 15,992 $ 16,020 As a percentage of amortized cost, 76% and 75% of the portfolio was publicly traded as of December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 90% and 88%, respectively, of the fixed maturity portfolio was considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. As of December 31, 2010, $1.188 billion of the residential mortgage backed securities were publicly traded agency pass through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees all of which have credit ratings of A or higher. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $104 million secured by ALT A mortgages, represented the remaining $162 million of residential mortgage backed securities, of which 86% have credit ratings of A or better and 14% are BBB and below. For a discussion of changes in the fair value of our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities see Investment Gains and Losses on Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities and Changes in Experience Rated Contractholder Liabilities Due to Asset Value Changes, above. 204 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the composition by industry category of the corporate securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated. Corporate Securities by Industry Category Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Industry(1) AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Corporate Securities: Manufacturing $ 3,084 $ 3,306 $ 3,089 $ 3,221 Utilities 1,961 2,076 2,017 2,076 Services 1,700 1,783 1,322 1,364 Finance 1,270 1,290 1,254 1,261 Energy 704 753 705 733 Transportation 467 495 474 488 Retail and Wholesale 378 398 330 348 Other 17 17 11 11 Total Corporate Securities $ 9,581 $ 10,118 $ 9,202 $ 9,502 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. The following tables set forth our asset backed securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated, by credit quality, and for asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages, by year of issuance (vintage). Asset Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2010 TotalDecember 31,2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating Vintage AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: 2010 2008 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 2007 0 0 0 0 124 124 127 2006 0 0 0 3 98 101 131 2005 0 0 0 0 50 50 60 2004 & Prior 3 14 5 12 37 71 79 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages 3 14 5 15 309 346 397 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by auto loans 35 1 0 0 0 36 136 Collateralized by credit cards 360 0 0 83 0 443 388 Other asset backed securities 134 135 31 22 11 333 101 Total asset backed securities $ 532 $ 150 $ 36 $ 120 $ 320 $ 1,158 $ 1,022 205 Table of Contents Asset Backed Securities at Fair Value Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2010 TotalDecember 31,2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating Vintage AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) Collateralized by sub prime mortgages: 2010 2008 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 2007 0 0 0 0 56 56 65 2006 0 0 0 3 62 65 82 2005 0 0 0 0 36 36 42 2004 & Prior 2 12 4 10 23 51 51 Total collateralized by sub prime mortgages(1) 2 12 4 13 177 208 240 Other asset backed securities: Collateralized by auto loans 35 1 0 0 0 36 137 Collateralized by credit cards 377 0 0 83 0 460 397 Other asset backed securities(2) 136 133 32 18 7 326 83 Total asset backed securities $ 550 $ 146 $ 36 $ 114 $ 184 $ 1,030 $ 857 (1) Included within the $208 million of asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime mortgages at fair value as of December 31, 2010 are $3 million of securities collateralized by second lien exposures at fair value. (2) As of December 31, 2010, includes collateralized debt obligations with fair value of $23 million, none of which are secured by sub prime mortgages. Also includes asset backed securities collateralized by timeshares, franchises, education loans, and equipment leases. The following tables set forth our commercial mortgage backed securities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio as of the dates indicated, by credit quality and by year of issuance (vintage). Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Amortized Cost Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2010 TotalDecember 31,2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating Vintage AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow TotalAmortizedCost (in millions) 2010 $ 65 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 65 $ 0 2009 32 0 0 0 0 32 0 2008 30 0 0 0 0 30 0 2007 128 0 0 0 0 128 46 2006 599 52 0 0 0 651 197 2005 1,015 9 0 0 0 1,024 850 2004 & Prior 350 17 28 17 10 422 806 Total commercial mortgage backed securities(1) $ 2,219 $ 78 $ 28 $ 17 $ 10 $ 2,352 $ 1,899 206 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities at Fair Value Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities December 31, 2010 TotalDecember 31,2009 Lowest Rating Agency Rating Vintage AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow Total FairValue (in millions) 2010 $ 64 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 64 $ 0 2009 31 0 0 0 0 31 0 2008 31 0 0 0 0 31 0 2007 130 0 0 0 0 130 43 2006 618 52 0 0 0 670 200 2005 1,050 11 0 0 0 1,061 856 2004 & Prior 357 17 27 12 7 420 794 Total commercial mortgage backed securities $ 2,281 $ 80 $ 27 $ 12 $ 7 $ 2,407 $ 1,893 (1) Included in the table above as of December 31, 2010 are downgraded super senior securities with amortized cost of $62 million in AA. The following table sets forth our public fixed maturities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC designation as of the dates indicated. Public Fixed Maturity Securities Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities (1)(2) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 7,836 $ 313 $ 93 $ 8,056 $ 6,986 $ 193 $ 91 $ 7,088 2 2,768 160 44 2,884 2,349 118 30 2,437 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 10,604 473 137 10,940 9,335 311 121 9,525 3 329 12 30 311 422 7 45 384 4 178 3 35 146 272 3 41 234 5 77 1 30 48 93 0 33 60 6 67 0 41 26 76 2 51 27 Subtotal Other Securities 651 16 136 531 863 12 170 705 Total Public Fixed Maturities $ 11,255 $ 489 $ 273 $ 11,471 $ 10,198 $ 323 $ 291 $ 10,230 (1) See Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality above for a discussion on NAIC designations. (2) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (3) Amounts are reported in Asset management fees and other income. 207 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our private fixed maturities included in our trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities portfolio by NAIC designation as of the dates indicated. Private Fixed Maturity Securities Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities (1)(2) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 NAIC Designation AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains(3) GrossUnrealizedLosses(3) FairValue (in millions) 1 $ 805 $ 66 $ 11 $ 860 $ 833 $ 32 $ 12 $ 853 2 2,584 187 10 2,761 2,379 116 18 2,477 Subtotal High or Highest Quality Securities 3,389 253 21 3,621 3,212 148 30 3,330 3 656 27 6 677 592 11 18 585 4 98 4 5 97 153 4 11 146 5 54 1 4 51 54 1 4 51 6 23 1 6 18 25 0 7 18 Subtotal Other Securities 831 33 21 843 824 16 40 800 Total Private Fixed Maturities $ 4,220 $ 286 $ 42 $ 4,464 $ 4,036 $ 164 $ 70 $ 4,130 (1) See Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality above for a discussion on NAIC designations. (2) Reflects equivalent ratings for investments of the international insurance operations that are not rated by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities. (3) Amounts are reported in Asset management fees and other income. Other Trading Account Assets Other trading account assets, at fair value consist primarily of certain financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative where we elected to classify the entire instrument as a trading account asset rather than bifurcate. These instruments are carried at fair value, with realized and unrealized gains and losses reported in Asset management fees and other income, and excluded from adjusted operating income. Interest and dividend income from these investments is reported in Net investment income, and is included in adjusted operating income. The following table sets forth the composition of our other trading account assets as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue AmortizedCost FairValue (in millions) Short term investments and cash equivalents $ 3 $ 3 $ 0 $ 0 $ 5 $ 5 $ 0 $ 0 Fixed maturities: Corporate securities 161 150 110 118 191 192 110 122 Commercial mortgage backed 143 103 0 0 238 136 0 0 Residential mortgage backed 301 181 0 0 287 158 0 0 Asset backed securities 636 589 36 37 965 913 40 40 Foreign government 25 25 0 0 24 24 0 0 U.S. government 0 0 0 0 12 12 0 0 Total fixed maturities 1,266 1,048 146 155 1,717 1,435 150 162 Equity securities 157 156 1 1 148 157 4 5 Other 12 13 0 0 17 19 0 0 Total other trading account assets $ 1,438 $ 1,220 $ 147 $ 156 $ 1,887 $ 1,616 $ 154 $ 167 208 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, on an amortized cost basis 83% of asset backed securities classified as Other trading account assets attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have credit ratings of A or above, 11% have BBB and the remaining 6% have BB and below credit ratings. As of December 31, 2010, on an amortized cost basis 44% of asset backed securities classified as Other trading account assets attributable to the Closed Block Business have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 56% have BBB credit ratings. Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Investment Mix As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we held approximately 10% and 12%, respectively, of our general account investments in commercial mortgage and other loans. This percentage is net of a $435 million and $534 million allowance for losses as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table sets forth the composition of our commercial mortgage and other loans portfolio, before the allowance for losses, as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Commercial and agricultural mortgage loans $ 19,796 $ 8,608 $ 19,322 $ 8,486 Uncollateralized loans 1,467 0 1,349 0 Residential property loans 891 1 909 1 Other collateralized loans 80 0 111 0 Total commercial mortgage and other loans(1) $ 22,234 $ 8,609 $ 21,691 $ 8,487 (1) Excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage loans held outside the general account in other entities and operations. For additional information regarding commercial mortgage loans held outside the general account, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations below. We originate commercial and agricultural mortgage loans using a dedicated investment staff and a network of independent companies through our various regional offices. All loans are underwritten consistently to our standards using a proprietary quality rating system that has been developed from our experience in real estate and mortgage lending. Uncollateralized loans primarily represent reverse dual currency loans and corporate loans which do not meet the definition of a security under authoritative accounting guidance. Residential property loans primarily include Japanese recourse loans. Upon default of these recourse loans we can make a claim against the personal assets of the property owner, in addition to the mortgaged property. In addition, these loans are backed by third party guarantors. Other collateralized loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses include $75 million and $93 million of collateralized consumer loans and $4 million and $17 million of loans collateralized by aviation assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Composition of Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans The flow of capital to commercial real estate has improved dramatically during 2010 as the adverse market and economic conditions that began in the second half of 2007 have improved. Portfolio lenders are actively originating loans on the highest quality properties in primary markets, resulting in an increase in the liquidity and availability of capital in the commercial mortgage loan market. In addition, the commercial banks are selectively more active and there has been an emergence of new loan origination activity by a handful of securitization lenders. These conditions have led to greater competition for portfolio lenders such as our general account, resulting in a tightening on loan pricing, though underwriting remains conservative. While there is still weakness in commercial real estate fundamentals, delinquency rates on our commercial mortgage loans remain low and 209 Table of Contents relatively stable. For certain property types, the market fundamentals are beginning to stabilize, though other property types will lag in terms of rising vacancies or falling rents. For additional information see Realized Investment Gains and Losses. Our commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolio strategy emphasizes diversification by property type and geographic location. The following tables set forth the breakdown of the gross carrying values of our general account investments in commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by geographic region and property type as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by region: U.S. Regions: Pacific $ 5,845 29.5 % $ 2,861 33.2 % $ 5,744 29.7 % $ 2,834 33.4 % South Atlantic 4,612 23.3 1,739 20.2 4,530 23.4 1,687 19.9 Middle Atlantic 3,122 15.8 1,959 22.8 2,909 15.1 1,837 21.6 East North Central 1,607 8.1 356 4.1 1,649 8.5 448 5.3 West South Central 1,541 7.8 676 7.9 1,370 7.1 653 7.7 Mountain 1,081 5.5 358 4.2 1,070 5.6 398 4.7 New England 623 3.1 269 3.1 775 4.0 214 2.5 West North Central 516 2.6 183 2.1 563 2.9 196 2.3 East South Central 317 1.6 156 1.8 367 1.9 163 1.9 Subtotal U.S. 19,264 97.3 8,557 99.4 18,977 98.2 8,430 99.3 Asia 224 1.1 0 0.0 11 0.1 0 0.0 Other 308 1.6 51 0.6 334 1.7 56 0.7 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans $ 19,796 100.0 % $ 8,608 100.0 % $ 19,322 100.0 % $ 8,486 100.0 % December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness Financial ServicesBusinesses Closed BlockBusiness GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal GrossCarryingValue % ofTotal ($ in millions) Commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by property type: Industrial buildings $ 4,627 23.4 % $ 1,910 22.2 % $ 4,290 22.2 % $ 1,861 21.9 % Retail stores 4,276 21.6 1,938 22.5 4,123 21.3 1,677 19.8 Office buildings 3,676 18.5 1,900 22.1 4,001 20.7 1,859 21.9 Apartments/Multi family 3,004 15.2 1,321 15.3 2,881 14.9 1,376 16.2 Other 1,882 9.5 452 5.3 1,809 9.4 550 6.5 Hospitality 1,126 5.7 407 4.7 1,137 5.9 453 5.3 Agricultural properties 1,205 6.1 680 7.9 1,081 5.6 710 8.4 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans $ 19,796 100.0 % $ 8,608 100.0 % $ 19,322 100.0 % $ 8,486 100.0 % Loan to value and debt service coverage ratios are measures commonly used to assess the quality of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans. The loan to value ratio compares the amount of the loan to the fair value of the underlying property collateralizing the loan, and is commonly expressed as a percentage. Loan to value ratios greater than 100% percent indicate that the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. A smaller loan to value ratio indicates a greater excess of collateral value over the loan amount. The debt service 210 Table of Contents coverage ratio compares a propertys net operating income to its debt service payments. Debt service coverage ratios less than 1.0 times indicate that property operations do not generate enough income to cover the loans current debt payments. A larger debt service coverage ratio indicates a greater excess of net operating income over the debt service payments. As of December 31, 2010, our general account investments in commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.72 times, and a weighted average loan to value ratio of 61%. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 96% of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were fixed rate loans. As of December 31, 2010, our general account investments in commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Closed Block Business had a weighted average debt service coverage ratio of 1.79 times, and a weighted average loan to value ratio of 57%. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 99% of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Closed Block Business were fixed rate loans. For those general account commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses that were originated in 2010, the weighted average debt service coverage ratio was 2.16 times and the weighted average loan to value ratio was 60%. The values utilized in calculating these loan to value ratios are developed as part of our periodic review of the commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolio, which includes an internal evaluation of the underlying collateral value. Our periodic review also includes a quality re rating process, whereby we update the internal quality rating originally assigned at underwriting based on the proprietary quality rating system mentioned above. As discussed below, the internal quality rating is a key input in determining our allowance for loan losses. For loans with collateral under construction, renovation or lease up, a stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. Our commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses included approximately $0.6 billion of such loans as of December 31, 2010 and $1.1 billion of such loans as of December 31, 2009, and our commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business included approximately $0.2 billion and $0.4 billion of such loans as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. All else being equal, these loans are inherently more risky than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. As of December 31, 2010, there are $14 million of loan specific reserves related to these loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and no reserves attributable to the Closed Block Business. In addition, these unstabilized loans are included in the calculation of our portfolio reserve as discussed below. For information regarding similar loans we hold as part of our commercial and agricultural mortgage operations, see Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations. The following tables set forth the gross carrying value of our general account investments in commercial and agricultural mortgage loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business as of the dates indicated by loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans by Loan to Value and Debt Service Coverage Ratios Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2010 Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greaterthan2.0x 1.8xto2.0x 1.5xto&lt;1.8x 1.2xto&lt;1.5x 1.0xto&lt;1.2x Lessthan1.0x TotalCommercialMortgageLoans Loan to Value Ratio (in millions) 0% 49.99% $ 3,087 $ 630 $ 1,021 $ 812 $ 277 $ 118 $ 5,945 50% 59.99% 1,040 438 590 409 261 21 2,759 60% 69.99% 883 739 885 1,220 395 122 4,244 70% 79.99% 139 257 933 1,316 686 268 3,599 80% 89.99% 99 0 243 549 449 452 1,792 90% 100% 20 0 0 9 173 401 603 Greater than 100% 16 0 0 109 206 523 854 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans $ 5,284 $ 2,064 $ 3,672 $ 4,424 $ 2,447 $ 1,905 $ 19,796 211 Table of Contents Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans by Loan to Value and Debt Service Coverage Ratios Closed Block Businesses December 31, 2010 Debt Service Coverage Ratio Greaterthan2.0x 1.8xto2.0x 1.5xto&lt;1.8x 1.2xto&lt;1.5x 1.0xto&lt;1.2x Lessthan1.0x TotalCommercialMortgageLoans Loan to Value Ratio (in millions) 0% 49.99% $ 1,612 $ 366 $ 754 $ 420 $ 179 $ 36 $ 3,367 50% 59.99% 317 149 345 194 50 54 1,109 60% 69.99% 306 230 449 565 175 88 1,813 70% 79.99% 105 0 435 546 449 0 1,535 80% 89.99% 34 0 0 263 105 101 503 90% 100% 0 0 0 0 86 37 123 Greater than 100% 0 0 0 30 0 128 158 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans $ 2,374 $ 745 $ 1,983 $ 2,018 $ 1,044 $ 444 $ 8,608 The following table sets forth the breakdown of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by year of origination as of December 31, 2010. December 31, 2010 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business Year of Origination GrossCarryingValue % of Total GrossCarryingValue % of Total ($ in millions) 2010 $ 3,344 16.9 % $ 1,099 12.8 % 2009 1,552 7.8 499 5.8 2008 3,219 16.3 1,169 13.6 2007 4,187 21.2 1,596 18.5 2006 3,076 15.5 1,021 11.9 2005 and prior 4,418 22.3 3,224 37.4 Total commercial and agricultural mortgage loans $ 19,796 100.0 % $ 8,608 100.0 % Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans by Contractual Maturity Date The following table sets forth the breakdown of our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2010. December 31, 2010 Financial Services Businesses Closed Block Business AmortizedCost % of Total AmortizedCost %of Total ($ in millions) Vintage Maturing in 2011 $ 1,500 6.7 % $ 408 4.7 % Maturing in 2012 2,805 12.6 933 10.8 Maturing in 2013 2,522 11.3 783 9.1 Maturing in 2014 1,412 6.4 930 10.8 Maturing in 2015 2,293 10.3 851 9.9 Maturing in 2016 2,582 11.6 1,003 11.7 Maturing in 2017 2,496 11.2 655 7.6 Maturing in 2018 1,170 5.3 584 6.8 Maturing in 2019 596 2.7 262 3.0 Maturing in 2020 1,549 7.0 856 10.0 Maturing in 2021 671 3.0 494 5.7 Maturing in 2022 and beyond 2,638 11.9 850 9.9 Total commercial mortgage and other loans $ 22,234 100.0 % $ 8,609 100.0 % 212 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage and Other Loan Quality Ongoing review of the portfolio is performed and loans are placed on watch list status based on a pre defined set of criteria, where they are assigned to one of the following categories. We place loans on early warning status in cases where, based on our analysis of the loans collateral, the financial situation of the borrower or tenants or other market factors, we believe a loss of principal or interest could occur. We classify loans as closely monitored when we determine there is a collateral deficiency or other credit events that may lead to a potential loss of principal or interest. Loans not in good standing are those loans where we have concluded that there is a high probability of loss of principal, such as when the loan is in the process of foreclosure or the borrower is in bankruptcy. In our domestic operations, our workout and special servicing professionals manage the loans on the watch list. As described below, in determining our allowance for losses we evaluate each loan on the watch list to determine if it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. In our international portfolios, we monitor delinquency in consumer loans on a pool basis and evaluate any servicing relationship and guarantees the same way we do for commercial mortgage loans. We establish an allowance for losses to provide for the risk of credit losses inherent in the lending process. The allowance includes loan specific reserves for loans that are determined to be non performing as a result of our loan review process, and a portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses for loans which are not on the watch list. We define a non performing loan as a loan for which we estimate it is probable that amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected. The loan specific portion of the loss allowance is based on our assessment as to ultimate collectability of loan principal and interest. Valuation allowances for a non performing loan are recorded based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate or based on the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. The portfolio reserve for incurred but not specifically identified losses considers the current credit composition of the portfolio based on the internal quality ratings mentioned above, as well as property type diversification, our past loan experience and other relevant factors. Together with historical credit migration and default statistics, the internal quality ratings are used to determine a default probability by loan. Historical loss severity statistics by property type are then applied to arrive at an estimate for incurred but not specifically identified losses. Historical credit migration, default and loss severity statistics are updated each quarter based on our actual loan experience, and are considered together with other relevant qualitative factors in making the final portfolio reserve calculations. The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage and other loans can increase or decrease from period to period based on these factors. The following tables set forth the aging schedule of our general account investments in commercial mortgage and other loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Businesses. Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Financial Services Businesses(1) December 31, 2010 Current 30 59 DaysPast Due 60 89 DaysPast Due GreaterThan 90Days Accruing GreaterThan 90Days NotAccruing Total PastDue TotalCommercialMortgageand OtherLoans (in millions) Commercial mortgage loans: Industrial $ 4,627 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 4,627 Retail 4,213 58 0 0 5 63 4,276 Office 3,655 21 0 0 0 21 3,676 Multi Family/Apartment 3,003 0 0 0 1 1 3,004 Hospitality 1,029 11 10 0 76 97 1,126 Other 1,829 17 0 0 36 53 1,882 Total commercial mortgage loans 18,356 107 10 0 118 235 18,591 Agricultural property loans 1,174 1 0 0 30 31 1,205 Residential property loans 847 20 3 0 21 44 891 Other collateralized loans 78 0 0 0 2 2 80 Uncollateralized loans 1,467 0 0 0 0 0 1,467 Total $ 21,922 $ 128 $ 13 $ 0 $ 171 $ 312 $ 22,234 213 Table of Contents Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Closed Block Business(1) December 31, 2010 Current 30 59 DaysPast Due 60 89 DaysPast Due GreaterThan 90Days Accruing GreaterThan 90Days NotAccruing Total PastDue TotalCommercialMortgageand OtherLoans (in millions) Commercial mortgage loans: Industrial $ 1,910 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 1,910 Retail 1,934 4 0 0 0 4 1,938 Office 1,900 0 0 0 0 0 1,900 Multi Family/Apartment 1,321 0 0 0 0 0 1,321 Hospitality 399 0 0 0 8 8 407 Other 436 0 0 0 16 16 452 Total commercial mortgage loans 7,900 4 0 0 24 28 7,928 Agricultural property loans 680 0 0 0 0 0 680 Residential property loans 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 Other collateralized loans 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Uncollateralized loans 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total $ 8,581 $ 4 $ 0 $ 0 $ 24 $ 28 $ 8,609 Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Financial Services Businesses and Closed Block Business(1) December 31, 2009 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Current $ 21,385 $ 8,461 Delinquent, not in foreclosure 179 13 Delinquent, in foreclosure 6 3 Restructured 121 10 Total commercial mortgage and other loans $ 21,691 $ 8,487 (1) December 31, 2010 balances are presented in a format consistent with the new disclosures required under the updated guidance issued by the FASB in 2010 relating to the allowance for credit losses and the credit quality of a companys financing receivable portfolio. December 31, 2009 balances are provided consistent with the prior periods presentation. The following table sets forth the change in valuation allowances for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Allowance, beginning of year $ 410 $ 124 $ 153 $ 58 Addition to/(release of) allowance for losses (78 ) (22 ) 335 86 Charge offs, net of recoveries (1 ) 0 (81 ) (20 ) Change in foreign exchange 2 0 3 0 Allowance, end of period $ 333 $ 102 $ 410 $ 124 As of December 31, 2010, the $333 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses included $143 million related to loan specific 214 Table of Contents reserves and $190 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. As of December 31, 2009, the $410 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses included $162 million related to loan specific reserves and $248 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. As of December 31, 2010, the $102 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business included $17 million related to loan specific reserves and $85 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. As of December 31, 2009, the $124 million valuation allowance for our commercial mortgage and other loan portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business included $13 million related to loan specific reserves and $111 million related to the portfolio reserve for probable incurred but not specifically identified losses. The decrease in the allowance for both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business primarily reflects positive credit migration for certain mortgages. Equity Securities Investment Mix The equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses consist principally of investments in common and preferred stock of publicly traded companies, as well as mutual fund shares and perpetual preferred securities, as discussed below. The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated. Equity Securities Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Public Equity Perpetual preferred stocks(1) $ 249 $ 19 $ 14 $ 254 $ 398 $ 21 $ 20 $ 399 Non redeemable preferred stocks 9 4 0 13 10 3 1 12 Mutual fund common stocks(2) 1,592 462 0 2,054 1,394 371 0 1,765 Other common stocks 1,267 112 44 1,335 1,177 45 96 1,126 Total public equity 3,117 597 58 3,656 2,979 440 117 3,302 Private Equity Perpetual preferred stocks(1) 449 15 16 448 432 11 39 404 Non redeemable preferred stocks 15 0 5 10 20 32 0 52 Common stock 12 10 1 21 17 23 0 40 Total private equity(3) 476 25 22 479 469 66 39 496 Total equity $ 3,593 $ 622 $ 80 $ 4,135 $ 3,448 $ 506 $ 156 $ 3,798 (1) These securities have characteristics of both debt and equity securities. (2) Includes mutual fund shares representing our interest in the underlying assets of certain of our separate account investments supporting corporate owned life insurance. These mutual funds invest primarily in high yield bonds. (3) Hedge funds and other alternative investments are included in Other long term investments. 215 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the composition of our equity securities portfolio attributable to the Closed Block Business and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of the dates indicated. Equity Securities Closed Block Business December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue Cost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses FairValue (in millions) Public Equity Perpetual preferred stocks(1) $ 133 $ 11 $ 4 $ 140 $ 161 $ 8 $ 11 $ 158 Non redeemable preferred stocks 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 Common stock 2,725 759 37 3,447 2,476 496 58 2,914 Total public equity 2,858 770 41 3,587 2,638 504 69 3,073 Private Equity Perpetual preferred stocks(1) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Non redeemable preferred stocks 6 0 0 6 6 0 0 6 Common stock 0 0 0 0 3 3 0 6 Total private equity 6 0 0 6 9 3 0 12 Total equity $ 2,864 $ 770 $ 41 $ 3,593 $ 2,647 $ 507 $ 69 $ 3,085 (1) These securities have characteristics of both debt and equity securities. Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by less than 20% for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Less than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 191 $ 2 $ 829 $ 30 Three months or greater but less than six months 226 13 159 18 Six months or greater but less than nine months 269 19 13 1 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 20 3 56 7 Greater than twelve months 302 18 691 59 Total $ 1,008 $ 55 $ 1,748 $ 115 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by less than 20%, using month end valuations. 216 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Greater than 20% Financial Services Businesses December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 13 $ 4 $ 24 $ 6 Three months or greater but less than six months 24 8 49 13 Six months or greater but less than nine months 2 1 12 4 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 1 1 21 5 Greater than twelve months(2) 24 11 36 13 Total $ 64 $ 25 $ 142 $ 41 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. (2) Includes only perpetual preferred securities as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010, were primarily concentrated in the finance and public utilities sectors compared to December 31, 2009, where the gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in the finance, energy, and manufacturing sectors. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Financial Services Businesses where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more of $25 million as of December 31, 2010, does not include any gross unrealized losses on securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 50% or more. Perpetual preferred securities have characteristics of both debt and equity securities. Since we apply to these securities an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities, we have not recognized an other than temporary impairment on certain of these perpetual preferred securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for twelve months or more as of December 31, 2010. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the table above as other than temporary impairments. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by less than 20% for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Less than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 2,560 $ 10 $ 2,188 $ 10 Three months or greater but less than six months 76 4 267 23 Six months or greater but less than nine months 107 9 8 0 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 56 4 16 4 Greater than twelve months 32 4 109 11 Total $ 2,831 $ 31 $ 2,588 $ 48 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by less than 20%, using month end valuations. 217 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the cost and gross unrealized losses of our equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more for the following timeframes: Unrealized Losses from Equity Securities, Greater than 20% Closed Block Business December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) AmortizedCost(1) GrossUnrealizedLosses(1) (in millions) Less than three months $ 12 $ 3 $ 29 $ 8 Three months or greater but less than six months 11 3 24 10 Six months or greater but less than nine months 10 4 2 1 Nine months or greater but less than twelve months 0 0 4 2 Greater than twelve months 0 0 0 0 Total $ 33 $ 10 $ 59 $ 21 (1) The aging of amortized cost and gross unrealized losses is determined based upon a count of the number of months the estimated fair value remained below cost by 20% or more, using month end valuations. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010, were primarily concentrated in the services, manufacturing, and finance sectors compared to December 31, 2009, where the gross unrealized losses were primarily concentrated in the finance, services, and manufacturing sectors. Gross unrealized losses attributable to the Closed Block Business where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 20% or more of $10 million as of December 31, 2010 does not include any gross unrealized losses on securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost by 50% or more. Perpetual preferred securities have characteristics of both debt and equity securities. Since we apply to these securities an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities, we have not recognized an other than temporary impairment on certain of these perpetual preferred securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for twelve months or more as of December 31, 2010. We have not recognized the gross unrealized losses shown in the table above as other than temporary impairments. See Other Than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities for a discussion of the factors we consider in making these determinations. Other Than Temporary Impairments of Equity Securities For those equity securities classified as available for sale we record unrealized gains and losses to the extent cost is different from estimated fair value. All securities with unrealized losses are subject to our review to identify other than temporary impairments in value. In evaluating whether a decline in value is other than temporary, we consistently consider several factors including, but not limited to, the following: the extent and the duration of the decline; including, but not limited to, the following general guidelines: declines in value greater than 20%, maintained for six months or greater; declines in value maintained for one year or greater; and declines in value greater than 50%; the reasons for the decline in value (issuer specific event, currency or market fluctuation); our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value, including certain equity securities managed by independent third parties where we do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions; and the financial condition of and near term prospects of the issuer. We generally recognize other than temporary impairments for securities with declines in value greater than 50% maintained for six months or greater or with any decline in value maintained for one year or greater. In 218 Table of Contents addition, in making our determinations we continue to analyze the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, including an assessment of the issuers capital position, and consider our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time to allow for a recovery of value. For those securities that have declines in value that are deemed to be only temporary, we make an assertion as to our ability and intent to retain the security until recovery. Once identified, these securities are restricted from trading unless authorized based upon events that could not have been foreseen at the time we asserted our ability and intent to retain the security until recovery. Examples of such events include, but are not limited to, the deterioration of the issuers creditworthiness, a major business combination or disposition, a change in regulatory requirements, certain other portfolio actions or other similar events. For those securities that have declines in value for which we cannot assert our ability and intent to retain until recovery, including certain equity securities managed by independent third parties where we do not exercise management discretion concerning individual buy or sell decisions, impairments are recognized as other than temporary regardless of the reason for, or the extent of, the decline. For perpetual preferred securities, which have characteristics of both debt and equity securities, we apply an impairment model similar to our fixed maturity securities, factoring in the position of the security in the capital structure and the lack of a formal maturity date. For additional discussion of our policies regarding other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities, see Fixed Maturity Securities Other Than Temporary Impairments of Fixed Maturity Securities above. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we record a writedown to estimated fair value, which reduces the cost basis and is included in Realized investment gains (losses), net. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our policies around other than temporary impairments for equity securities. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the fair value methodology used for equity securities. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were $78 million and $389 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Impairments of equity securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were $34 million and $613 million for years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For a further discussion of impairments, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses above. Other Long Term Investments Other long term investments are comprised as follows: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) Joint ventures and limited partnerships: Real estate related $ 163 $ 361 $ 331 $ 338 Non real estate related 1,070 1,162 816 1,049 Real estate held through direct ownership (1) 1,141 1 1,055 0 Other (2) 614 58 609 158 Total other long term investments $ 2,988 $ 1,582 $ 2,811 $ 1,545 (1) Primarily includes investment in an office building used by our Japanese insurance operations. (2) Primarily includes derivatives and member and activity stock held in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and Boston. For additional information regarding our holding in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and Boston, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 219 Table of Contents Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations The following table sets forth the composition of the investments held outside the general account in other entities and operations as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Fixed Maturities: Public, available for sale, at fair value $ 2,046 $ 1,953 Private, available for sale, at fair value 75 49 Other trading account assets, at fair value 2,849 1,250 Equity securities, available for sale, at fair value 13 12 Commercial mortgage and other loans, at book value (1) 1,423 1,740 Other long term investments 1,601 1,548 Short term investments 435 1,185 Total investments $ 8,442 $ 7,737 (1) Book value is generally based on unpaid principal balance net of any allowance for losses, the lower of cost or fair value, or fair value, depending on the loan. The table above includes the invested assets of our brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. Assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet are not included. Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed maturity securities primarily include investments related to our non retail banking operations, where customer deposit liabilities are primarily supported by fixed maturity and short term investments, in addition to cash and cash equivalents. The following table sets forth the composition of the portion of our fixed maturity securities portfolio by industry category attributable to our other entities and operations. Fixed Maturity Securities Invested Assets of Other Entities and Operations December 31, 2010 Lowest Rating Agency Rating TotalAmortizedCost TotalFairValue Industry(1) AAA AA A BBB BB andbelow (in millions) Residential Mortgage Backed $ 1,029 $ 8 $ 3 $ 0 $ 10 $ 1,050 $ 1,078 Asset Backed Securities 204 28 2 17 26 277 299 Commercial Mortgage Backed 149 5 0 0 7 161 167 Corporate Securities 53 66 258 89 23 489 516 U.S. Government 43 0 15 0 0 58 59 State & Municipal 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 Foreign Government 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 Total $ 1,479 $ 107 $ 279 $ 106 $ 66 $ 2,037 $ 2,121 (1) Investment data has been classified based on standard industry categorizations for domestic public holdings and similar classifications by industry for all other holdings. The table above includes the invested assets of our brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. Assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet are not included. 220 Table of Contents Other Trading Account Assets Other trading account assets primarily include trading positions held by our derivatives trading operations and our global commodities group used in a dealer or broker capacity and derivative hedging positions used in a non broker or non dealer capacity. The derivative hedging positions used in a non broker or non dealer capacity primarily include a portfolio of derivatives primarily intended to hedge the risks related to certain products. Trading positions held by our derivatives trading operations used in a broker or dealer capacity include various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. We seek to use short security positions, forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks associated with these positions. We also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. Our derivative transactions involve both exchange listed and over the counter contracts. Our global commodities group provides advice, sales and trading on a global basis covering a wide variety of commodity, financial and foreign exchange futures, swap and forward contracts, including agricultural commodities, base and precious metals, major currencies, interest rate and stock indices. We act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. Less than $1 million of commercial mortgage backed securities held outside the general account are classified as other trading account assets as of December 31, 2010 all of which have AAA credit ratings. An additional $34 million of asset backed securities held outside the general account as of December 31, 2010 are classified as other trading account assets, and all have AAA credit ratings. Commercial mortgage and other loans Our asset management operations include our commercial mortgage operations, which provide mortgage origination, asset management and servicing for our general account, institutional clients, and government sponsored entities such as Fannie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration, and Freddie Mac. We also originate shorter term interim loans for spread lending that are collateralized by assets generally under renovation or lease up. All else being equal, these interim loans are inherently more risky than those collateralized by properties that have already stabilized. Our interim loans are generally paid off through refinancing or the sale of the underlying collateral by the borrower. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the interim loans had an unpaid principal balance of $1.3 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, and an allowance for losses or credit related market value losses totaling $168 million and $236 million, respectively. The weighted average loan to value ratio was 108% as of December 31, 2010 and 112% as of December 31, 2009, indicating that, in aggregate, the loan amount was greater than the collateral value, and the weighted average debt service coverage ratio was 1.24 times as of December 31, 2010 and 1.16 times as of December 31, 2009. A stabilized value and projected net operating income are used in the calculation of the loan to value and debt service coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2010, we also hold $69 million of commercial real estate held for sale related to foreclosed interim loans. The mortgage loans of our commercial mortgage operations are included in Commercial mortgage and other loans, with related derivatives and other hedging instruments primarily included in Other trading account assets and Other long term investments. Other long term investments Other long term investments primarily include proprietary investments made as part of our asset management operations. We make these proprietary investments in real estate, as well as fixed income, public equity and real estate securities, including controlling interests. Certain of these investments are made primarily for purposes of co investment in our managed funds and structured products. Other proprietary investments are made with the intention to sell or syndicate to investors, including our general account, or for placement in funds and structured products that we offer and manage (seed investments). As part of our asset management operations we also make loans to our managed funds that are secured by equity commitments from investors or assets of the funds. Commercial Real Estate As discussed above, we have investment based exposure to commercial real estate through a variety of investment vehicles. This exposure primarily results from our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities and our whole loan commercial mortgage holdings. For additional information regarding our exposure 221 Table of Contents to commercial real estate, see the respective investment sections above within General Account Investments. Our invested asset exposure to commercial real estate as of the dates indicated includes the following, shown at their respective balance sheet carrying value: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness FinancialServicesBusinesses ClosedBlockBusiness (in millions) General Account Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities, at fair value: Fixed Maturity Securities $ 8,671 $ 3,779 $ 7,828 $ 3,662 Trading Account Assets Supporting Insurance Liabilities 2,407 0 1,893 0 Other Trading Account Assets 103 0 136 0 Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans, at gross carrying value(1) 19,796 8,608 19,322 8,486 Real estate related joint ventures and limited partnerships(2) 163 361 331 338 Real estate held through direct ownership(3) 1,141 1 1,055 0 Other Entities and Operations(4) Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities, at fair value: Fixed Maturity Securities $ 167 $ 0 $ 92 $ 0 Other Trading Account Assets 0 0 0 0 Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans, at gross carrying value(5) 1,420 0 1,739 0 Real estate related joint ventures and limited partnerships(2) 534 0 492 0 Real estate held through direct ownership(3) 517 0 461 0 (1) Carrying value is generally based on unpaid principal balance. Amounts are shown gross of allowance for losses of $283 million and $102 million as of December 31, 2010 and $371 million and $124 million as of December 31, 2009, attributable to the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, respectively. Commercial mortgage loans are shown net of the allowance for losses on the statement of financial position. (2) Balances accounted for under either the cost or equity method and include all real estate related exposures, net of impairments. (3) Represents wholly owned investment real estate which we have the intent to hold for the production of income as well as real estate held for sale. Real estate which we have the intent to hold for the production of income is carried at depreciated cost less any writedowns to fair value for impairment. Real estate held for sale is carried at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value less estimated selling costs and is not further depreciated once classified as such. (4) Includes invested assets of brokerage, trading and banking operations, real estate and relocation services, and asset management operations. Excludes assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties and those assets classified as Separate account assets on our balance sheet. (5) Carrying value is generally based on unpaid principal balance, the lower of cost or fair value, or fair value. Amounts are shown gross of allowance for losses of $120 million and $147 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Commercial mortgage loans are shown net of the allowance for losses on the statement of financial position. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Liquidity refers to the ability to generate sufficient cash resources to meet the payment obligations of the Company. Capital refers to the long term financial resources available to support the operation of our businesses, fund business growth, and provide a cushion to withstand adverse circumstances. Our ability to generate and maintain sufficient liquidity and capital depends on the profitability of our businesses, general economic conditions and our access to the capital markets and the alternate sources of liquidity and capital described herein. Management monitors the liquidity of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries on a daily basis and projects borrowing and capital needs over a multi year time horizon through our quarterly planning process. We believe that cash flows from the sources of funds presently available to us are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. 222 Table of Contents We continue to refine our metrics for capital management. These refinements to the current framework, which is primarily based on statutory risk based capital measures, are designed to more appropriately reflect risks associated with our businesses on a consistent basis across the Company. In addition, we continue to use an economic capital framework for making certain business decisions. Similar to our planning and management process for liquidity, we also use a disciplined framework to ensure the availability of adequate capital under reasonably foreseeable contingencies. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, signed into law on July 21, 2010, could result in the imposition of new capital, liquidity and other requirements on Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. See Business Regulation for information regarding the potential impact of the Dodd Frank Act on the Company. Acquisition of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., AIG Edison Life Insurance Company and Related Entities On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition from American International Group, Inc., or AIG, of AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd., AIG Edison Life Insurance Company and certain other AIG subsidiaries pursuant to the stock purchase agreement dated September 30, 2010 with AIG. The total purchase price was approximately $4.8 billion, comprised of approximately $4.2 billion in cash and $0.6 billion in the assumption of third party debt, substantially all of which is expected to be repaid, over time, with excess capital of the acquired entities. To partially fund the acquisition purchase price, in November 2010, Prudential Financial completed a public offering and sale of 18,348,624 shares of Common Stock and $1.0 billion of medium term notes, resulting in aggregate proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion. The remainder of the purchase price was funded with approximately $2.2 billion of cash and short term investments. In November 2010, the Company also terminated the $3.0 billion term loan bridge facility previously entered into at the time of signing the purchase agreement with AIG. The bridge facility was intended to be available to finance any portion of the acquisition purchase price not otherwise funded with proceeds from capital markets transactions or with other resources. Prudential Financial The principal sources of funds available to Prudential Financial, the parent holding company, are dividends, returns of capital and interest income from its subsidiaries, and cash and short term investments. These sources of funds may be supplemented by Prudential Financials access to the capital markets and credit facilities, as well as the Alternative Sources of Liquidity described below. The primary uses of funds at Prudential Financial include servicing our debt and the payment of declared shareholder dividends, operating expenses and capital contributions and obligations to subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, Prudential Financial had cash and short term investments of $6.672 billion, an increase of $2.842 billion from December 31, 2009. Included in the cash and short term investments of Prudential Financial is $1.013 billion held in an intercompany liquidity account that is designed to optimize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and borrowing of funds between Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries on a daily basis. Also included are short term investments of $1.085 billion, consisting primarily of government agency securities and money market funds. 223 Table of Contents The following table sets forth Prudential Financials principal sources and uses of cash and short term investments for the period indicated. Year EndedDecember 31, 2010 (in millions) Sources: Dividends and or returns of capital from subsidiaries(1) $ 3,975 Net proceeds from the issuance of long term senior debt(2) 3,221 Net proceeds from the issuance of Common Stock 970 Repayment of funding agreements from Prudential Insurance 799 Proceeds from stock based compensation and exercise of stock options 239 Proceeds from short term debt, net of repayments 135 Total sources 9,339 Uses: Capital contributions to subsidiaries(3) 2,199 Shareholder dividends 575 Repayment of long term senior debt 25 Repayment of retail medium term notes 450 Net borrowings by subsidiaries(4) 1,755 Payment of income taxes(5) 812 Other, net 681 Total uses 6,497 Net increase in cash and short term investments $ 2,842 (1) Includes dividends and or returns of capital of $3.0 billion from Prudential Insurance, $470 million from Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation, $205 million from international insurance and investment subsidiaries, $247 million from asset management subsidiaries and $53 million from other subsidiaries. (2) See Financing Activities. (3) Includes capital contributions of $851 million to international insurance and investments subsidiaries, $498 million to asset management subsidiaries, $495 million to an investment subsidiary, $256 million to our offshore captive reinsurer, $95 million to an irrevocable trust, commonly referred to as a rabbi trust, which holds assets of the Company to be used to satisfy its obligation with respect to certain non qualified retirement plans, and $4 million to other subsidiaries. (4) Includes net borrowings of $859 million by Pruco Reinsurance to support the capital markets hedging program related to our variable annuity products, net borrowings of $400 million and $250 million by Prudential Arizona Reinsurance Term Company and Universal Prudential Arizona Reinsurance Captive Company, respectively, funding statutory reserves required under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX, as discussed in more detail in Financing Activities, net borrowings of $245 million by Pruco Life Insurance Company of Arizona to fund deferred acquisition costs on variable annuity products, and net borrowings of $150 million by our asset management subsidiaries. The remainder represents net repayments from other subsidiaries as well as net activity in our intercompany liquidity account described above. (5) Primarily represents an estimated tax payment to the Internal Revenue Service made March 15, 2010 with an extension request for Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries 2009 consolidated federal income tax return. This payment is driven in part by the gain on the sale of our minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities. Prudential Financial has also made estimated tax payments to the Internal Revenue Service for 2010 and settled certain tax liabilities and benefits for 2009 and 2010 pursuant to a tax allocation agreement with its subsidiaries. On November 9, 2010, Prudential Financials Board of Directors declared an annual dividend for 2010 of $1.15 per share of Common Stock, representing an increase of approximately 64 percent from the 2009 Common Stock dividend. The table below presents declaration, record, and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the Common Stock dividend for the last five years. Dividend Amount Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Per Share Aggregate (in millions, except per share data) November 9, 2010 November 23, 2010 December 17, 2010 $ 1.15 $ 564 November 10, 2009 November 24, 2009 December 18, 2009 $ 0.70 $ 327 November 11, 2008 November 24, 2008 December 19, 2008 $ 0.58 $ 246 November 13, 2007 November 26, 2007 December 21, 2007 $ 1.15 $ 521 November 14, 2006 November 27, 2006 December 21, 2006 $ 0.95 $ 453 224 Table of Contents The primary components of capitalization for the Financial Services Businesses consist of the equity we attribute to the Financial Services Businesses (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits), outstanding junior subordinated debt and outstanding capital debt of the Financial Services Businesses. Capital debt consists of borrowings that are used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of Prudential Financial, as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial and subsidiary borrowings utilized for capital requirements. As shown in the table below, as of December 31, 2010, the Financial Services Businesses had $38.0 billion in capital, all of which was available to support the aggregate capital requirements of its three divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. Based on our assessments of these businesses and operations, we believe this level of capital was consistent with the AA ratings targets of our regulated operating entities as of December 31, 2010. December 31,2010 (in millions) Attributed equity (excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits) $ 29,248 Junior subordinated debt (i.e. hybrid securities) 1,519 Capital debt 7,244 Total capital $ 38,011 We seek to capitalize all of our subsidiaries and businesses in accordance with their ratings targets, and we believe Prudential Financials capitalization and use of financial leverage are consistent with those ratings targets. Management uses the ratio of capital debt to total capital (as such amounts are reflected in the table above) as a primary measure of the use of financial leverage. As of December 31, 2010, our capital debt to total capital ratio was 22.1%. The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt have certain features which result in their treatment as hybrid securities by the rating agencies. As a result, for purposes of calculating the capital debt to total capital ratio, 25% of our outstanding junior subordinated debt is treated as equity and the remaining 75% is treated as capital debt, based on Moodys current criteria for these types of hybrid securities, which is the most restrictive treatment among the rating agencies. Our long term senior debt rating targets for Prudential Financial are A for Standard & Poors Rating Services, or S&P, Moodys Investors Service, Inc., or Moodys, and Fitch Ratings Ltd., or Fitch, and a for A.M. Best Company, or A.M. Best. Our financial strength rating targets for our domestic life insurance companies are AA/Aa/AA for S&P, Moodys and Fitch, respectively, and A+ for A.M. Best. Currently, some of our ratings are below these targets. For a description of material rating actions that have occurred from the beginning of 2010 through the date of this filing and a discussion of the potential impacts of ratings downgrades, see Ratings. Restrictions on Dividends and Returns of Capital from Subsidiaries Our insurance and various other companies are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and other transfers of funds to affiliates. With respect to Prudential Insurance, New Jersey insurance law provides that, except in the case of extraordinary dividends (as described below), all dividends or other distributions paid by Prudential Insurance may be paid only from unassigned surplus, as determined pursuant to statutory accounting principles, less unrealized investment gains and losses and revaluation of assets as of the prior calendar year end. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, Prudential Insurances unassigned surplus was $4.224 billion and $5.295 billion, respectively, and it recorded applicable adjustments for cumulative unrealized investment gains of $1,499 million and $925 million, respectively. Prudential Insurance must give prior notification to the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, or NJDOBI, or the Department, of its intent to pay any dividend or distribution. Also, if any dividend, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the prior calendar years statutory surplus or (ii) the prior calendar years statutory net gain from operations excluding realized investment gains and losses, the dividend is considered to be an extraordinary dividend and the prior approval of the Department is required for payment of the dividend. Prudential Insurances statutory surplus as of December 31, 2010 was $8.364 billion and its statutory net gain from operations, excluding realized investment gains and losses, for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1.127 billion. In addition to the regulatory limitations, the terms of the IHC debt 225 Table of Contents contain restrictions potentially limiting dividends by Prudential Insurance applicable to the Financial Services Businesses in the event the Closed Block Business is in financial distress and under certain other circumstances. The laws regulating dividends of the other states and foreign jurisdictions where our other insurance companies are domiciled are similar, but not identical, to New Jerseys. On May 14, 2010, Prudential Insurance paid an ordinary dividend of $2.4 billion, and on November 23, 2010, it paid an extraordinary dividend of $600 million. Also in 2010, Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation paid an ordinary dividend of $330 million and an extraordinary dividend of $140 million. These dividends were ultimately received by Prudential Financial. As a result of Gibraltar Lifes reorganization, in addition to regulatory restrictions, there are certain other restrictions that preclude Gibraltar Life from paying dividends to Prudential Financial in the near term. We anticipate that it will be several years before these restrictions will allow Gibraltar Life to pay dividends. In 2010, The Prudential Life Insurance Company, Ltd., or Prudential of Japan, for which the payment of dividends is subject to regulatory limitations pursuant to statutory accounting principles, paid a dividend of &yen;9 billion, or approximately $110 million, to Prudential Holdings of Japan, Inc., some of which was used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses. The ability of our asset management subsidiaries and the majority of our other operating subsidiaries to pay dividends is largely unrestricted from a regulatory standpoint. The ability of each of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in 2011 depends on market conditions and other factors. See Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries below for additional details on the liquidity of our domestic insurance subsidiaries, international insurance subsidiaries and asset management subsidiaries. Alternative Sources of Liquidity Prudential Financial maintains an intercompany liquidity account that is designed to optimize the use of cash by facilitating the lending and borrowing of funds between the parent holding company and its affiliates on a daily basis. Depending on the overall availability of cash, the parent holding company invests excess cash on a short term basis or borrows funds in the capital markets. Additional longer term liquidity is available through inter affiliate borrowing arrangements. Prudential Financial and certain of its subsidiaries also have access to bank facilities, as discussed under Credit Facilities, as well as the alternative sources of liquidity described below. Commercial Paper Programs Prudential Financial has a commercial paper program, the authorized capacity of which was reduced from $5.0 billion to $3.0 billion as of June 30, 2010. Prudential Financial commercial paper borrowings generally have been used to fund the working capital needs of Prudential Financials subsidiaries and to provide short term liquidity at Prudential Financial. As of December 31, 2010, Prudential Financials outstanding commercial paper borrowings were $283 million, representing an increase of $137 million from December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average maturity of Prudential Financials outstanding commercial paper was 43 days, of which 15% was overnight. The daily average commercial paper outstanding during 2010 under this program was $222 million. The weighted average interest rate on these borrowings was 0.42% and 1.61% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Prudential Funding, LLC, or Prudential Funding, a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, has a commercial paper program, the authorized capacity of which was reduced from $12.0 billion to $7.0 billion as of June 30, 2010. Prudential Funding commercial paper borrowings have generally served as an additional source of financing to meet the working capital needs of Prudential Insurance and its subsidiaries. Prudential Funding also lends to other subsidiaries of Prudential Financial up to limits agreed with the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. As of December 31, 2010, Prudential Fundings outstanding commercial paper borrowings were $874 million, representing an increase of $144 million from December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average maturity of Prudential Fundings outstanding commercial paper was 31 days, of which 30% was overnight. The majority of the proceeds from outstanding commercial paper were utilized to fund the working capital needs of our affiliates and short term cash flow timing mismatches. The daily average commercial paper outstanding during 2010 under this program was $985 million. The weighted average interest rates on these borrowings were 0.31% and 0.77% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 226 Table of Contents Prudential Funding maintains a support agreement with Prudential Insurance whereby Prudential Insurance has agreed to maintain Prudential Fundings positive tangible net worth at all times. Prudential Financial has also issued a subordinated guarantee covering Prudential Fundings commercial paper program. While we continue to consider commercial paper one of our alternative sources of liquidity due to the low cost and efficient financing it provides, we have significantly reduced our reliance on commercial paper to fund our operations, and have developed plans that would enable us to further reduce, or if necessary eliminate, our commercial paper borrowings by accessing other sources of liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $4.1 billion. These facilities can be used as backup liquidity for our commercial paper programs or for other general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities as of December 31, 2010 or as of the date of this filing. For a further discussion of these lines of credit, see Credit Facilities. Asset based Financing We conduct asset based or secured financing within our insurance and other subsidiaries, including transactions such as securities lending, repurchase agreements and mortgage dollar rolls, in order to earn spread income, to borrow funds, or to facilitate trading activity. These programs are driven by portfolio holdings of securities that are lendable based on counterparty demand for these securities in the marketplace. The collateral received in connection with these programs is primarily used to purchase securities in the short term spread portfolios of our domestic insurance entities. Investments held in the short term spread portfolios include cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and fixed maturities, including mortgage and asset backed securities, with a weighted average life at time of purchase of two years or less. A portion of the asset backed securities held in our short term spread portfolios, including our enhanced short term portfolio, are collateralized by sub prime mortgages. Floating rate assets comprise the majority of our short term spread portfolio. See Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities for a further discussion of our asset backed securities collateralized by sub prime holdings, including details regarding those securities held in our enhanced short term portfolio. These short term portfolios are subject to specific investment policy statements, which among other things, do not allow for significant asset/liability interest rate duration mismatch. As of December 31, 2010, our Financial Services Businesses had liabilities totaling $4.172 billion under such programs, including $2.557 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase, $1.614 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities and $1 million representing securities sold but not yet purchased. Of the $4.172 billion for the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2010, $2.581 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder generally has maturities ranging from two days to three months with a weighted average maturity of 14 days. The daily weighted average outstanding under such programs during 2010 was $4.678 billion. As of December 31, 2009, our Financial Services Businesses had liabilities totaling $5.309 billion under such programs. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, our Financial Services Businesses had outstanding mortgage dollar rolls under which we are committed to repurchase $36 million of mortgage backed securities, or to be announced (TBA) forward contracts. These repurchase agreements do not qualify as secured borrowings and are accounted for as derivatives. These mortgage backed securities are considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. As of December 31, 2010, our Closed Block Business had liabilities totaling $3.885 billion under such programs, including $3.328 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase and $557 million representing cash collateral for loaned securities. Of the $3.885 billion for the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2010, $2.446 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder generally has maturities ranging from two days to three months with a weighted average maturity of 24 days. The daily weighted average outstanding under such programs during 2010 was $3.969 billion. As of December 31, 2009, our Closed Block Business had liabilities totaling $3.888 billion under such programs. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, the Closed Block Business had outstanding mortgage dollar rolls under which we are committed to repurchase $68 million of TBA forward 227 Table of Contents contracts. These repurchase agreements do not qualify as secured borrowings and are accounted for as derivatives. These mortgage backed securities are considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. As of December 31, 2010, our domestic insurance entities had assets eligible for the lending program of $79.4 billion, of which $7.6 billion were on loan. Taking into account market conditions and outstanding loan balances as of December 31, 2010, we believe approximately $25.5 billion of the remaining eligible assets are readily lendable, of which approximately $17.2 billion relates to the Financial Services Businesses; however, these amounts are subject to potential regulatory constraints. Further, changes in market conditions can affect the ability to lend the available assets. As referenced above, these programs are typically limited to securities in demand that can be loaned at relatively low financing rates. As such, we believe there is unused capacity available through these programs. Holdings of cash and cash equivalent investments in these short term spread portfolios allow for further flexibility in sizing the portfolio to better match available financing. Current conditions in both the financing and investment markets are continuously monitored in order to appropriately manage the cost of funds, investment spreads, asset/liability duration matching and liquidity. Federal Home Loan Bank of New York Prudential Insurance is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY. Membership allows Prudential Insurance access to the FHLBNYs financial services, including the ability to obtain collateralized loans and to issue collateralized funding agreements that can be used as an alternative source of liquidity. FHLBNY borrowings and funding agreements are collateralized by qualifying mortgage related assets or U.S. Treasury securities, the fair value of which must be maintained at certain specified levels relative to outstanding borrowings, depending on the type of asset pledged. FHLBNY membership requires Prudential Insurance to own member stock and borrowings require the purchase of activity based stock in an amount equal to 4.5% of outstanding borrowings. Under FHLBNY guidelines, if Prudential Insurances financial strength ratings decline below A/A2/A Stable by S&P/Moodys/Fitch, respectively, and the FHLBNY does not receive written assurances from NJDOBI regarding Prudential Insurances solvency, new borrowings from the FHLBNY would be limited to a term of 90 days or less. Currently there are no restrictions on the term of borrowings from the FHLBNY. NJDOBI previously permitted Prudential Insurance to pledge collateral to the FHLBNY in an amount of up to 7% of its prior year end statutory net admitted assets, excluding separate account assets; however, since we elected not to seek an extension, this limitation reset to 5% effective January 1, 2011. Based on Prudential Insurances statutory net admitted assets as of December 31, 2009, the 5% limitation equates to a maximum amount of pledged assets of $7.4 billion and an estimated maximum borrowing capacity (after taking into account required collateralization levels and purchases of activity based stock) of approximately $6.2 billion. Nevertheless, FHLBNY borrowings are subject to the FHLBNYs discretion and to the availability of qualifying assets at Prudential Insurance. As of December 31, 2010, we had pledged qualifying assets with a fair value of $2.8 billion, which supported outstanding collateralized advances of $1.0 billion and collateralized funding agreements of $1.5 billion. The fair value of qualifying assets that were available to Prudential Insurance but not pledged amounted to $5.5 billion as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, $275 million of the FHLBNY outstanding advances is reflected in Short term debt and matures in December 2011 and the remaining $725 million is in Long term debt and matures in December 2015. FHLBNY advances declined $1.0 billion from December 31, 2009, reflecting the repayment at maturity of $1.0 billion of advances in June and the refinancing of $1.0 billion of advances in December. The June repayment at maturity was funded through the repayment of an affiliate loan (which was replaced by a loan from Prudential Financial) and with available cash. As of December 31, 2010, $650 million of the outstanding FHLBNY proceeds were used to support the operating needs of our businesses, and $350 million were used to purchase investments, including the FHLBNY activity based stock. The funding agreements issued to the FHLBNY, which are reflected in Policyholders account balances, have priority claim status above debt 228 Table of Contents holders of Prudential Insurance. These funding agreements currently serve as a substitute funding source for a product of our Retirement segment, which earns investment spread that was previously funded by retail medium term notes issued by Prudential Financial. Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company, or PRIAC, became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, or FHLBB, in December 2009. Membership allows PRIAC access to collateralized advances which will be classified in Short term debt or Long term debt, depending on the maturity date of the obligation. PRIACs membership in FHLBB requires the ownership of member stock and borrowings from FHLBB require the purchase of activity based stock in an amount between 3.0% and 4.5% of outstanding borrowings, depending on the maturity date of the obligation. As of December 31, 2010, PRIAC had no advances outstanding under the FHLBB facility. The Connecticut Department of Insurance, or CTDOI, permits PRIAC to pledge up to $2.6 billion in qualifying assets to secure FHLBB borrowings through December 31, 2011. PRIAC must seek re approval from CTDOI prior to borrowing additional funds after that date. Based on available eligible assets as of December 31, 2010, PRIAC had an estimated maximum borrowing capacity, after taking into consideration required collateralization levels and required purchases of activity based FHLBB stock, of approximately $1.1 billion. Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Domestic Insurance Subsidiaries General Liquidity We manage the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations to ensure stable, reliable and cost effective sources of cash flows to meet all of our obligations. Liquidity is provided by a variety of sources, as described more fully below, including portfolios of liquid assets. The investment portfolios of our domestic operations are integral to the overall liquidity of those operations. We segment our investment portfolios and employ an asset/liability management approach specific to the requirements of our product lines. This enhances the discipline applied in managing the liquidity, as well as the interest rate and credit risk profiles, of each portfolio in a manner consistent with the unique characteristics of the product liabilities. We use a projection process for cash flows from operations to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet projected cash outflows, including claims. The impact of Prudential Fundings financing capacity on liquidity, as discussed more fully under Alternative Sources of Liquidity, is considered in the internal liquidity measures of the domestic insurance operations. Liquidity is measured against internally developed benchmarks that take into account the characteristics of both the asset portfolio and the liabilities that they support. The results are affected substantially by the overall asset type and quality of our investments. Pursuant to the documentation for the disposition of our property and casualty operations completed in 2003, we were required to deposit cash or securities into a trust for the purpose of securing insurance liabilities that were to have been transferred to Prudential Insurance following completion of the disposition but that have not been so transferred. In June 2010, we deposited securities which, as of December 31, 2010, have a market value of $577 million. The deposit of these assets was not a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance. Cash Flow The principal sources of liquidity for Prudential Insurance and our other domestic insurance subsidiaries are premiums and annuity considerations, investment and fee income, and investment maturities and sales associated with our insurance and annuity operations, as well as internal and external borrowings. The principal uses of that liquidity include benefits, claims, dividends paid to policyholders, and payments to policyholders and contractholders in connection with surrenders, withdrawals and net policy loan activity. Other uses of liquidity include commissions, general and administrative expenses, purchases of investments, and payments in connection with financing activities. 229 Table of Contents We believe that the cash flows from our insurance and annuity operations are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of these operations, including under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. The continued adequacy of this liquidity will depend upon factors such as future securities market conditions, changes in interest rate levels, policyholder perceptions of our financial strength, and the relative safety of competing products, each of which could lead to reduced cash inflows or increased cash outflows. In addition, market volatility can impact the level of capital required to support our businesses, particularly in our annuity business. Our domestic insurance operations cash flows from investment activities result from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income, net of amounts reinvested. The primary liquidity risks with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors or bond insurers, our counterparties willingness to extend repurchase and or securities lending arrangements, commitments to invest and market volatility. We closely manage these risks through our credit risk management process and regular monitoring of our liquidity position. In managing the liquidity of our domestic insurance operations, we also consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions when selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. We use surrender charges and other contract provisions to mitigate the extent, timing and profitability impact of withdrawals of funds by customers from annuity contracts and deposit liabilities. The following table sets forth withdrawal characteristics of our general account annuity reserves and deposit liabilities (based on statutory liability values) as of the dates indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Amount % of Total Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Not subject to discretionary withdrawal provisions $ 37,505 47 % $ 38,078 47 % Subject to discretionary withdrawal, with adjustment: With market value adjustment 21,105 26 20,570 26 At market value 1,876 2 1,598 2 At contract value, less surrender charge of 5% or more 2,471 3 4,166 5 Subtotal 62,957 78 64,412 80 Subject to discretionary withdrawal at contract value with no surrender charge or surrender charge of less than 5% 17,404 22 16,382 20 Total annuity reserves and deposit liabilities $ 80,361 100 % $ 80,794 100 % Individual life insurance policies are less susceptible to withdrawal than our annuity reserves and deposit liabilities because policyholders may incur surrender charges and be subject to a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. Our annuity reserves with guarantee features may be less susceptible to withdrawal than historical experience indicates, due to the perceived value of these guarantee features to policyholders as a result of market declines in recent years. Annuity benefits and guaranteed investment withdrawals under group annuity contracts are generally not subject to early withdrawal. Gross account withdrawals for our domestic insurance operations products were consistent with our assumptions in asset/liability management, and the associated cash outflows did not have a material adverse impact on our overall liquidity. Liquid Assets Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, fixed maturities that are not designated as held to maturity and public equity securities. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our domestic insurance operations had liquid assets of $138.5 billion and $134.3 billion, respectively, which includes a portion financed with asset based financing. The portion of liquid assets comprised of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments was $5.8 billion and $11.1 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, $116.7 billion, or 90.5%, of the fixed maturity investments that are not designated as held to maturity within our domestic insurance company general account portfolios were considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. The remaining $12.2 billion, or 9.5%, of these fixed maturity investments were considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity measures in order to evaluate the adequacy of our domestic insurance operations liquidity 230 Table of Contents under a variety of stress scenarios. We believe that the liquidity profile of our assets is sufficient to satisfy current liquidity requirements, including under foreseeable stress scenarios. Given the size and liquidity profile of our investment portfolios, we believe that claim experience varying from our projections does not constitute a significant liquidity risk. Our asset/liability management process takes into account the expected maturity of investments and expected claim payments as well as the specific nature and risk profile of the liabilities. Historically, there has been no significant variation between the expected maturities of our investments and the payment of claims. Our domestic insurance companies liquidity is managed through access to substantial investment portfolios as well as a variety of instruments available for funding and or managing cash flow mismatches, including from time to time those arising from claim levels in excess of projections. To the extent we need to pay claims in excess of projections, we may borrow temporarily or sell investments sooner than anticipated to pay these claims, which may result in increased borrowing costs or realized investment gains or losses affecting results of operations. For a further discussion of realized investment gains and losses, see Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments Realized Investment Gains and Losses. We believe that borrowing temporarily or selling investments earlier than anticipated will not have a material impact on the liquidity of our domestic insurance companies. Payment of claims and sale of investments earlier than anticipated would have an impact on the reported level of cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities, respectively, in our financial statements. Instead of selling investments at depressed market prices externally, in order to preserve economic value (including tax attributes), we may also sell investments from one subsidiary to another at fair market value or transfer investments internally between businesses within the same subsidiary. Capital The Risk Based Capital, or RBC, ratio is a primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of Prudential Insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries, which includes businesses in both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business. We manage Prudential Insurance and our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries RBC ratios to a level consistent with their ratings targets. RBC is determined by statutory guidelines and formulas that consider, among other things, risks related to the type and quality of the invested assets, insurance related risks associated with an insurers products and liabilities, interest rate risks and general business risks. The RBC ratio calculations are intended to assist insurance regulators in measuring the adequacy of an insurers statutory capitalization. As of December 31, 2010, RBC for Prudential Insurance was approximately 530%, which exceeded the minimum levels required by applicable insurance regulations. In addition, all of our other domestic life insurance subsidiaries have RBC ratios that exceed the minimum level required by applicable insurance regulations. The reporting of RBC measures is not intended for the purpose of ranking any insurance company or for use in connection with any marketing, advertising or promotional activities. The level of statutory capital of our domestic life insurance subsidiaries can be materially impacted by interest rate and equity market fluctuations, changes in the values of derivatives, the level of impairments recorded and credit quality migration of the investment portfolio, among other items. Further, the recapture of business subject to reinsurance arrangements due to defaults by, or credit quality migration affecting, the reinsurers could result in higher required statutory capital levels. The level of statutory capital of our domestic life insurance subsidiaries is also affected by statutory accounting rules, which are subject to change by insurance regulators. During 2010, we changed the focus of our capital hedge program from the equity price risk associated with our annuities business to a broader view of equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole. In the second quarter of 2010, we removed the equity component of our capital hedge within the Individual Annuities segment as described under Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities and entered into equity index linked derivative transactions that are designed to mitigate the impact on statutory capital of a severe equity market stress event. The program now focuses on tail risk rather than general equity market declines in order to protect our capital in a more cost effective manner under stress scenarios. We assess the composition of our hedging program on an ongoing basis, and we may change it from time to time based on our evaluation of the Companys risk position or other factors. 231 Table of Contents In addition to hedging the equity market exposure as mentioned above, we also manage certain risks associated with our variable annuity products through our hedging programs, as described under Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. In our living benefits hedging program, we purchase equity options and futures as well as interest rate derivatives to hedge certain optional living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives against changes in equity markets, interest rates, and market volatility. Historically, our hedging strategy sought to generally match the sensitivities of the embedded derivative liability as defined by GAAP, excluding the impact of the market perceived risk of our own non performance, with capital market derivatives and options. In the third quarter of 2010, we revised our hedging strategy as, in the low interest rate environment, we do not believe the GAAP value of the embedded derivative liability to be an appropriate measure for determining the hedge target. Our new hedge target continues to be grounded in a GAAP/capital markets valuation framework but incorporates modifications to the risk free return assumption to account for the fact that the underlying customer separate account funds, which support these living benefits, are invested in assets that contain risk. Consistent with sound risk management practices we evaluate hedge levels versus our target given overall capital considerations of the Company and prevailing capital market conditions and may decide to temporarily hedge to an amount that differs from our hedge target definition. As part of our capital planning and management process, we use a disciplined framework to ensure the availability of adequate capital under reasonably foreseeable contingencies, including potentially adverse outcomes resulting from our hedging strategy. We reinsure variable annuity living benefit guarantees to our offshore captive reinsurance company. We satisfy the reinsurance reserve credit requirements by funding statutory reserve credit trusts. Reinsurance credit reserve requirements can move materially in either direction due to changes in equity markets and interest rates, actuarial assumptions and other factors. Higher reinsurance credit reserve requirements would necessitate depositing additional assets in the statutory reserve credit trusts, while lower reinsurance credit reserve requirements would allow assets to be removed from the statutory reserve credit trusts. We provided additional funding to the captive reinsurance trusts of $379 million for the second quarter of 2010 to meet increased reserve credit requirements due to unfavorable equity market conditions and lower interest rates, and provided an additional $354 million for the third quarter of 2010 due to an update of actuarial assumptions based on an annual review, most notably a decrease in expected future lapse rates, partially offset by favorable equity market conditions. Due to favorable equity market conditions and higher interest rates in the fourth quarter of 2010, our need to fund the captive reinsurance trusts has declined by $1,255 million. We review the reinsurance reserve credit requirements and the value of the reinsurance trust assets on a quarterly basis. If we determine that the value of the reinsurance trust assets are not sufficient to meet the reinsurance reserve credit requirements, we would expect to satisfy those additional needs through a combination of funding the reinsurance credit trusts with available cash, loans from Prudential Financial and or affiliates and assets pledged to our offshore captive reinsurance company under hedging positions related to our living benefit features. We also continue to evaluate other options to address reserve credit needs such as obtaining letters of credit. International Insurance and Investments Subsidiaries In our international insurance operations, liquidity is provided through operating cash flows from ongoing operations as well as portfolios of liquid assets. In managing the liquidity, and the interest and credit risk profiles of our international insurance portfolios, we employ a discipline similar to the discipline employed for domestic insurance subsidiaries. We monitor liquidity through the use of internal liquidity measures, taking into account the liquidity of the asset portfolios. As with our domestic operations, in managing the liquidity of these operations, we consider the risk of policyholder and contractholder withdrawals of funds earlier than our assumptions in selecting assets to support these contractual obligations. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our international insurance subsidiaries had total general account insurance related liabilities (other than dividends payable to policyholders) of $84.4 billion and $74.0 billion, respectively. Of those amounts, $44.2 billion and $41.1 billion, respectively, were associated with Gibraltar Life. 232 Table of Contents A special dividend was payable to certain Gibraltar Life policyholders based on 70% of the net increase in the fair value, through March 2009, of certain real estate and loans, net of transaction costs and taxes, included in the Gibraltar Life reorganization plan. The first special dividend was paid in 2005 and the final special dividend was payable generally on the next anniversary of the issue date of each applicable insurance policy, beginning in April 2009. In 2010, Gibraltar Life made distributions to policyholders of $129 million in payment of the 2009 special dividend liability, primarily in the form of additional policy values, and to a lesser extent in cash. The liability related to the special dividend was fully paid as of June 30, 2010. On February 1, 2011, we completed our acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses. Gibraltar Life and Prudential of Japan each contributed $400 million to the payment of the acquisition purchase price, with the remaining funding provided by Prudential Financial and other subsidiaries. Although these contributions will reduce local solvency margin ratios in Gibraltar Life and Prudential of Japan, the solvency margins for these companies remain in excess of our targets. See below for additional information regarding solvency margin requirements. The contributions did not materially impact Gibraltar Lifes or Prudential of Japans liquidity as their investment portfolios were positioned to provide the funding. Star and Edison solvency margin ratios at acquisition are estimated to be in excess of our solvency margin targets and will continue to be managed to capitalization levels consistent with our AA ratings targets. We believe the liquidity profiles of Star and Edison are sufficient to meet their obligations, including under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. On May 1, 2009, our Gibraltar Life operations acquired Yamato Life, a Japanese life insurance company that declared bankruptcy in October 2008. Gibraltar Life served as the reorganization sponsor for Yamato and under the reorganization agreement acquired Yamato by contributing $72 million of capital to Yamato. Concurrent with our acquisition, substantially all of Yamatos insurance liabilities were restructured under a plan of reorganization to include special surrender penalties on existing policies. These charges were 20% in the first year and decline by 2% each year thereafter. Subsequent to the acquisition, we renamed the acquired company The Prudential Gibraltar Financial Life Insurance Company, Ltd. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, Prudential of Japan had $32.2 billion and $26.2 billion, respectively, of general account insurance related liabilities, other than dividends to policyholders. Prudential of Japan did not have a material amount of general account annuity reserves or deposit liabilities subject to discretionary withdrawal as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, we believe that the individual life insurance policies sold by Prudential of Japan do not have significant withdrawal risk because policyholders may incur surrender charges and must undergo a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new insurance policy. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our international insurance subsidiaries had cash and short term investments of $3.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, as well as fixed maturity investments, other than those designated as held to maturity, with fair values of $69.3 billion and $58.2 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, $68.3 billion, or 99%, of the fixed maturity investments that are not designated as held to maturity within our international insurance subsidiaries were considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating, of which $33.8 billion and $25.2 billion were associated with Gibraltar Life and Prudential of Japan, respectively. The remaining $1.0 billion, or 1%, of these fixed maturity investments were considered other than high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating, of which $0.7 billion and $0.3 billion were associated with Gibraltar Life and Prudential of Japan, respectively. In addition, of the $68.3 billion of fixed maturity investments that are not designated as held to maturity and considered high or highest quality based on NAIC or equivalent rating, $50.6 billion, or 74%, were invested in government or government agency bonds. We consider attributes of the various categories of liquid assets (for example, type of asset and credit quality) in calculating internal liquidity measures to evaluate the adequacy of our international insurance operations liquidity under stress scenarios. We believe that ongoing operations and the liquidity profile of our international insurance assets provide sufficient liquidity under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios. Similar to the RBC ratios that are employed by U.S. insurance regulators, regulatory authorities in the international jurisdictions in which we operate generally establish some form of minimum solvency margin requirements for insurance companies. All of our international insurance subsidiaries have solvency margins in 233 Table of Contents excess of the minimum levels required by the applicable regulatory authorities. These solvency margins are also a primary measure by which we evaluate the capital adequacy of our international insurance operations. We manage these solvency margins to a capitalization level consistent with our AA ratings target. Maintenance of our solvency ratios at certain levels is also important to our competitive positioning, as in certain jurisdictions, such as Japan, these solvency margins are required to be disclosed to the public and therefore impact the public perception of an insurers financial strength. The Financial Services Agency, the insurance regulator in Japan, has implemented revisions to the solvency margin requirements that will revise risk charges for certain assets and change the manner in which an insurance companys core capital is calculated. These changes are effective for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2012; however, it is anticipated that companies may begin to publicly disclose prior to that date both the old and new solvency margin calculations. While we believe that the solvency margins of our Japanese insurance subsidiaries would continue to satisfy regulatory requirements and our internal targets, it is possible that a reduction in our reported ratios arising from changes in the calculation requirements could affect customer perception of our financial strength. The capital requirements in Korea and Taiwan are also undergoing change. We employ various hedging strategies to manage potential exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements, including the strategies discussed in Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. These hedging strategies include both internal and external hedging programs. The internal hedges are between a subsidiary of Prudential Financial and certain of our yen based entities and serve to hedge the value of U.S. dollar denominated investments held on the books of these yen based entities. Cash settlements from these hedging activities result in cash flows between Prudential Financial and these yen based subsidiaries. The cash flows are dependent on changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the notional amount of the exposures hedged. During 2010, Prudential Financial funded $158 million of cash settlements related to the internal hedge program, which were paid to the yen based subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, the market value of the internal hedges was a liability of $1,304 million owed to the yen based subsidiaries of Prudential Financial. Absent any changes in forward exchange rates from those expected as of December 31, 2010, the $1,304 million internal hedge liability represents the present value of the net cash flows from Prudential Financial to these entities over the life of the hedging instruments, up to 30 years. A significant yen appreciation over an extended period of time, and in excess of the forward exchange rates, would result in higher net cash outflows from Prudential Financial in excess of our historical experience. Our external hedges primarily serve to hedge the equity investments in certain subsidiaries and future income of most foreign subsidiaries. The external hedges are between a subsidiary of Prudential Financial and external parties. Cash settlements on these activities result in cash flows between Prudential Financial and the external parties and are dependent on changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the notional amount of the exposures hedged. During 2010, Prudential Financial paid $171 million of net cash flows for international insurance related external hedge settlements. As of December 31, 2010, the net liability related to external foreign currency hedges was $540 million. A significant appreciation in yen and other foreign currencies could result in net cash outflows in excess of our liability. During the second quarter of 2009, we terminated our hedges of the U.S. GAAP equity exposure of our Korean operations due to a variety of considerations, including a desire to limit the potential for cash settlement outflows that would result from a strengthening Korean won. For similar reasons, during the third quarter of 2010, we also terminated our hedges of the U.S. GAAP equity exposure for all other foreign operations, excluding our Japan and Taiwan insurance operations. In our international investments operations, liquidity is provided through asset management fees as well as commission revenue. The principal uses of liquidity include general and administrative expenses and distributions of dividends and returns of capital. As with our domestic operations, the primary liquidity risks for our fee based asset management businesses relate to their profitability, which is impacted by market conditions and our investment management performance. We believe cash flows from our international investments subsidiaries are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of their operations, as well as requirements that could arise under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios, which are monitored through the use of internal measures. 234 Table of Contents Asset Management Subsidiaries Our asset management businesses, which include real estate, public and private fixed income and public equity asset management, as well as commercial mortgage origination and servicing, and retail investment products, such as mutual funds and other retail services, are largely unregulated from the standpoint of dividends and distributions. Our asset management subsidiaries through which we conduct these businesses generally do not have restrictions on the amount of distributions they can make, and the fee based asset management business can provide a relatively stable source of cash flow to Prudential Financial. The principal sources of liquidity for our fee based asset management businesses include asset management fees and commercial mortgage servicing fees. The principal uses of liquidity include general and administrative expenses and distribution of dividends and returns of capital to Prudential Financial. The primary liquidity risks for our fee based asset management businesses relate to their profitability, which is impacted by market conditions and our investment management performance. We believe the cash flows from our fee based asset management businesses are adequate to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of these operations, as well as requirements that could arise under reasonably foreseeable stress scenarios, which are monitored through the use of internal measures. The principal sources of liquidity for our proprietary investments and interim loans held in our asset management businesses are cash flows from investments, the ability to liquidate investments, and available borrowing lines from internal sources, including Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial. The primary liquidity risks include the inability to sell assets in a timely manner, declines in the value of assets and credit defaults. The global economic recession experienced during 2008 and 2009 increased the liquidity risks associated with our proprietary investments and interim loans, as the markets for certain investments, such as commercial mortgages and real estate, became less liquid. Though these markets have improved, if we needed to sell these investments, it could still take longer and the prices could be lower than prior to the global recession. In December 2008, we received approval from NJDOBI for Prudential Insurance to provide an 18 month $1.5 billion lending facility to our commercial mortgage operation that is collateralized primarily by its interim loan portfolio. The maximum amount outstanding under this facility was $1.0 billion and was drawn at inception. This amount was gradually repaid during the period it was outstanding and was repaid in its entirety during the second quarter of 2010 using long term funding provided by Prudential Financial. In April 2009, our commercial mortgage origination and servicing business received approval to participate in a Fannie Mae alternative delivery program known as ASAP Plus (As Soon as Pooled delivery). Our approval limit for outstanding balances on ASAP Plus is presently $350 million. This program allows us to assign a qualified Fannie Mae loan trade commitment to Fannie Mae as early as the next business day after a loan closes, and receive 99% of the loan purchase price from Fannie Mae. The program does not eliminate the need to provide temporary warehouse financing, but does significantly reduce the duration of funding requirements for eligible Fannie Mae originated loans from the normal delivery cycle of two to four weeks down to as little as one to two days. There was no balance outstanding on this program as of December 31, 2010. Certain real estate funds under management are held for the benefit of clients in insurance company separate accounts sponsored by Prudential Insurance. In the normal course of business, these separate accounts enter into purchase commitments which include commitments to purchase real estate, invest in future real estate partnerships, and or fund additional construction or other expenditures on previously acquired real estate investments. Certain purchases of real estate are contingent on the developers development of the real estate according to plans and specifications outlined in a pre sale agreement or the property achieving a certain level of leasing. Purchase commitments are typically entered into by Prudential Insurance on behalf of the particular separate account and, upon acquisition, are titled either in the name of Prudential Insurance or an LLC subsidiary formed for that purpose. In certain cases, the commitments specify that recourse on the obligation is limited to the assets of the separate account. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, total outstanding purchase commitments were $5.3 billion and $8.7 billion, respectively. The decrease in total outstanding purchase commitments was primarily driven by debt repayments funded from investor capital contributions and property sales. The following is a summary of the 235 Table of Contents outstanding purchase commitments for these separate account portfolios as of December 31, 2010. Off balance sheet commitments have not yet substantially satisfied pre conditions and are considered contingent liabilities. On balance sheet commitments represent obligations which have substantially satisfied pre conditions of the commitments. Contractual Maturity Date 2011 2012 After 2012 Total (in millions) Off Balance Sheet Commitments: Recourse to Prudential Insurance $ 790 $ 217 $ 8 $ 1,015 Recourse limited to assets of separate accounts 733 74 15 822 Total Off Balance Sheet Commitments 1,523 291 23 1,837 On Balance Sheet Commitments: Recourse to Prudential Insurance 1,396 0 71 1,467 Recourse limited to assets of separate accounts 1,537 416 59 2,012 Total On Balance Sheet Commitments 2,933 416 130 3,479 Total Commitments $ 4,456 $ 707 $ 153 $ 5,316 The contractual maturity dates of some of the outstanding purchase commitments may accelerate upon a failure to maintain required loan to value ratios, failure of Prudential Insurance to maintain required ratings or failure to satisfy other financial covenants. Some separate accounts have also entered into syndicated credit facilities providing for borrowings in the aggregate amount of up to $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding borrowings of $100 million under these credit facilities. These facilities also include loan to value ratio requirements and other financial covenants. Recourse on obligations under these facilities is limited to the assets of the applicable separate account. As of December 31, 2010, these separate account portfolios had combined gross and net asset values of $25.7 billion and $14.5 billion, respectively. At the time of maturity of a commitment obligation, Prudential Insurance often endeavors to negotiate extensions, refinancings or other solutions with creditors. Management believes that the separate accounts have sufficient resources to ultimately meet their obligations. However, there is a risk that the separate accounts may not be able to timely fund all maturing obligations from regular sources such as asset sales, operating cash flow, deposits from clients, debt refinancings or from the above mentioned portfolio level credit facilities. In cases where the separate account is not able to fund maturing obligations, Prudential Insurance may be called upon or required to provide interim funding solutions. To date, Prudential Insurance has not been required to provide any such funding. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our asset management subsidiaries had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $805 million and $646 million, respectively. Financing Activities Prudential Financial maintains a shelf registration statement with the SEC that permits the issuance of public debt, equity and hybrid securities. As a Well Known Seasoned Issuer under SEC rules, Prudential Financials shelf registration statement provides for automatic effectiveness upon filing, pay as you go fees and the ability to add securities by filing automatically effective amendments. Also, in accordance with these rules, the shelf registration statement has no stated issuance capacity. In November 2010, Prudential Financial issued 18,348,624 shares of its Common Stock in a public offering at a price of $54.50 per share for gross proceeds of $1.0 billion. The proceeds from the offering, along with proceeds from the sale of $1.0 billion of medium term notes, were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of the Star and Edison Businesses from AIG. 236 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, total short and long term debt of the Company on a consolidated basis was $25.6 billion and $24.2 billion, respectively, which as shown below, includes $17.6 billion and $14.7 billion, respectively, related to the parent company, Prudential Financial. Prudential Financial Borrowings Prudential Financial is authorized to borrow funds from various sources to meet its capital and other funding needs, as well as the capital and other funding needs of its subsidiaries. The following table sets forth the outstanding short and long term debt of Prudential Financial, other than debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries, as of December 31: 2010 2009 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt: Commercial paper $ 283 $ 146 Floating rate convertible senior notes 0 2 Current portion of long term debt 486 55 Total general obligation short term debt 769 203 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 12,654 9,725 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities) 1,519 1,518 Retail medium term notes 2,668 3,222 Total general obligation long term debt 16,841 14,465 Total borrowings $ 17,610 $ 14,668 The following table presents, as of December 31, 2010, Prudential Financials contractual maturities of its general obligation long term debt: Calendar Year Senior Debt Junior SubordinatedDebt Retail Medium term Notes (in millions) 2012 $ 850 $ 0 $ 103 2013 1,600 0 165 2014 1,500 0 79 2015 2,150 0 81 2016 and thereafter 6,554 1,519 2,240 Total $ 12,654 $ 1,519 $ 2,668 Prudential Financial maintains a Medium Term Notes, Series D program under its shelf registration statement with an authorized issuance capacity of $20 billion, reflecting an increase in the program size by $10 billion effective June 9, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $9.4 billion remained available under the program. In 2010 Prudential Financial issued an aggregate of $3.25 billion of notes under the program, as follows: in January we issued $500 million of 2.75% notes due January 2013 and $750 million of 3.875% notes due January 2015, the proceeds from which were used to replace a portion of the FHLBNY borrowing that matured in June 2010 and to make operating loans to our affiliates; in June we issued $650 million of 5.375% notes due June 2020 and $350 million of 6.625% notes due June 2040, the proceeds from which were used to purchase surplus notes from our insurance subsidiaries to support the financing of statutory reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX and to make operating loans to our affiliates; and in November we issued $500 million of 4.50% notes due November 2020 and $500 million of 6.20% notes due November 2040, the proceeds from which were used to fund a portion of the acquisition purchase price for the Star and Edison Businesses. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Financials medium term and senior notes, including the effect of interest rate hedging activity, were 5.21% and 5.51% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, excluding the effect of debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries. 237 Table of Contents Prudential Financial also maintains a retail medium term notes program, including the InterNotes&reg; program, under its shelf registration statement with an authorized issuance capacity of $5.0 billion. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $2.8 billion remained available under this program. The retail medium term notes program traditionally has served as a funding source for a product of our Retirement segment for which we earn investment spread; however, the program can also be used for general corporate purposes. Beginning in 2009, we began using a portion of the proceeds from outstanding retail medium term notes for general corporate purposes and used funding agreements issued to the FHLBNY as a substitute funding source for the asset portfolio within the Retirement segment, as discussed in Prudential Financial Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. The weighted average interest rates on Prudential Financials retail medium term notes were 5.74% and 5.50% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, excluding the effect of debt issued to consolidated subsidiaries. A decline in demand by retail investors, and an increase in borrowing costs versus historical levels have resulted in a halt in new issuances under the retail medium term notes program. However, if the capital markets continue to improve, we may resume new issuances under the program. In 2008, Prudential Financial issued $600 million of 8.875% fixed to floating rate junior subordinated notes to institutional investors and $920 million of 9.0% fixed rate junior subordinated notes to retail investors. Both issuances are considered hybrid capital securities, which receive enhanced equity treatment from the rating agencies. Both series of notes have a scheduled maturity of June 15, 2038 and a final maturity of June 15, 2068. In connection with the issuance of both series of notes, Prudential Financial entered into a replacement capital covenant, or RCC, for the benefit of holders of its 6.625% Senior Notes due 2037. Under the RCC, Prudential Financial agreed that it will not repay, redeem, defease, or purchase the notes prior to June 15, 2048, unless it has received proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement capital securities, which include, but are not limited to, hybrid capital securities and common stock. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning these junior subordinated notes. Consolidated Borrowings Current capital markets activities for the Company on a consolidated basis principally consist of unsecured short term and long term borrowings by Prudential Funding and Prudential Financial, unsecured third party bank borrowings, and asset based or secured financing. As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all debt covenants related to the borrowings in the table below. The following table sets forth total consolidated borrowings of the Company as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Borrowings: General obligation short term debt(1) $ 1,982 $ 3,122 General obligation long term debt: Senior debt 15,517 13,199 Junior subordinated debt (hybrid securities) 1,519 1,518 Surplus notes(2) 4,142 4,141 Other(3) 725 0 Total general obligation long term debt 21,903 18,858 Total general obligations 23,885 21,980 Limited and non recourse borrowing: Limited and non recourse long term debt(4) 1,750 2,179 Total limited and non recourse borrowing 1,750 2,179 Total borrowings(5) 25,635 24,159 Total asset based financing 8,057 9,197 Total borrowings and asset based financings $ 33,692 $ 33,356 (1) As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes $0.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, of short term debt representing collateralized advances with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, which are discussed in more detail in Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. 238 Table of Contents (2) As of both December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes $3.2 billion of floating rate surplus notes issued by subsidiaries of Prudential Insurance to fund regulatory reserves, as well as $942 million and $941 million, respectively, of fixed rate surplus notes issued by Prudential Insurance. (3) Reflects collateralized advances with Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, which are discussed in more detail in Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. (4) As of both December 31, 2010 and 2009, $1.750 billion of limited and non recourse long term debt outstanding was attributable to the Closed Block Business. (5) Does not include $3.5 billion and $4.9 billion of medium term notes of consolidated trust entities secured by funding agreements purchased with the proceeds of such notes as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, or $1.5 billion of collateralized funding agreements issued to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These notes and funding agreements are included in Policyholders account balances. For additional information on the trust notes, see Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program and for additional information on the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York funding agreements, see Alternative Sources of Liquidity Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. On September 18, 2009, Prudential Insurance issued in a private placement $500 million of surplus notes due September 2019, with an interest rate of 5.36% per annum, that are exchangeable by the holders for shares of Prudential Financial Common Stock. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding these exchangeable surplus notes. The proceeds from the sale of these surplus notes are being used for general corporate purposes at Prudential Insurance. Total general debt obligations increased by $1.9 billion from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, primarily reflecting issuances of medium term notes and an increase in commercial paper utilized to fund loans to our affiliates, offset by the repayment of the collateralized advance with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and certain retail medium term notes. Our total borrowings consist of capital debt, investment related debt, securities business related debt and debt related to specified other businesses. Capital debt consists of borrowings that are used or will be used to meet the capital requirements of Prudential Financial, as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial and subsidiary borrowings utilized for capital requirements. Investment related borrowings consist of debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, assets supporting reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX as described below, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences. Securities business related debt consists of debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker dealers and our capital markets and other securities business related operations. Debt related to specified other businesses consists of borrowings associated with our individual annuity business, real estate franchises and relocation services. Borrowings under which either the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral, or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets, have been classified as limited and non recourse debt. 239 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our borrowings, categorized by use of proceeds, as of December 31: 2010 2009 (in millions) General obligations: Capital debt(1) $ 8,763 $ 8,453 Investment related 9,569 9,245 Securities business related 2,230 2,298 Specified other businesses 3,323 1,984 Total general obligations 23,885 21,980 Limited and non recourse debt(2) 1,750 2,179 Total borrowings $ 25,635 $ 24,159 Short term debt $ 1,982 $ 3,122 Long term debt 23,653 21,037 Total borrowings $ 25,635 $ 24,159 Borrowings of Financial Services Businesses $ 23,885 $ 22,409 Borrowings of Closed Block Business 1,750 1,750 Total borrowings $ 25,635 $ 24,159 (1) Includes $1.519 billion and $1.518 billion of total outstanding junior subordinated debt as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Prudential Financial for additional information on our capital debt to total capital ratio, including the equity credit attributed to our outstanding junior subordinated debt. (2) As of both December 31, 2010 and 2009, $1.750 billion of limited and non recourse debt outstanding was attributable to the Closed Block Business. The following table presents, as of December 31, 2010, the Companys contractual maturities of its long term debt: Calendar Year: Long term Debt (in millions) 2012 $ 961 2013 1,844 2014 1,659 2015 3,160 2016 and thereafter 16,029 Total $ 23,653 We may, from time to time, seek to redeem or repurchase our outstanding debt securities through individually negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such repurchases will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity position, contractual restrictions and other factors. The states of domicile of our domestic life insurance subsidiaries have in place a regulation entitled Valuation of Life Insurance Policies, commonly known as Regulation XXX, and a supporting Guideline entitled The Application of the Valuation of Life Insurance Policies, commonly known as Guideline AXXX. The Regulation and supporting Guideline require insurers to establish statutory reserves for term and universal life insurance policies with long term premium guarantees that are consistent with the statutory reserves required for other individual life insurance policies with similar guarantees. Many market participants believe that this level of reserves is excessive, and we have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX on our term and universal life insurance business, including actions that are described in more detail below. In 2006, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance entered into a surplus note purchase agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution that provides for the issuance of up to $3.0 billion of ten year floating rate surplus notes through 2016, if certain conditions are met (commonly referred to as XXX notes), for the purpose 240 Table of Contents of financing certain regulatory reserves required to be held by subsidiary life insurers in connection with the intercompany reinsurance of certain term life insurance policies. In connection with this financing arrangement, Prudential Financial has agreed with such subsidiary that it or certain of its affiliates will make capital contributions to such subsidiary as necessary to maintain the capital of such subsidiary at or above a prescribed minimum level. Concurrent with the issuance of each surplus note, Prudential Financial enters into arrangements with the buyer, which are accounted for as derivative instruments, which may result in payments by, or to, Prudential Financial over the term of the surplus notes, to the extent there are significant changes in the value of the surplus notes. Principal factors that impact the value of the surplus notes are mortality experience, interest rates and credit spreads. As of December 31, 2010, there have been no collateral postings made under the derivative instruments. Surplus notes issued under this facility are subordinated to policyholder obligations and are subject to regulatory approvals for principal and interest payments. Total outstanding notes under this facility were $2.7 billion as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009. During 2007, a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance issued $500 million of 45 year floating rate surplus notes (commonly referred to as AXXX notes) to an unaffiliated financial institution for the purpose of financing certain regulatory reserves required to be held by subsidiary life insurers in connection with the intercompany reinsurance of certain universal life insurance policies. Surplus notes issued under this facility are subordinated to policyholder obligations and are subject to regulatory approvals for principal and interest payments. In connection with this financing arrangement, Prudential Financial has agreed with such subsidiary that it or certain of its affiliates will make capital contributions to such subsidiary as necessary to maintain the capital of such subsidiary at or above a prescribed minimum level. Concurrent with the issuance of these surplus notes, Prudential Financial entered into a credit derivative that requires Prudential Financial to make certain payments in the event of deterioration in the value of the surplus note. Under this credit derivative, we are required to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10 year credit default swap spreads on Prudential Financials senior debt. As of December 31, 2010, no collateral amounts were required to be paid. As we continue to underwrite term and universal life business, we expect to have additional borrowing needs to finance statutory reserves required under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX. We were able to fund these reserves through 2010 primarily with the proceeds from Prudential Financials June 2010 medium term note issuance. Based on current sales expectations, we believe our 2011 reserve growth could be up to $600 million. We are evaluating both internal and external solutions to fund this growth. Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program In 2003, Prudential Insurance established a Funding Agreement Notes Issuance Program pursuant to which a Delaware statutory trust issues medium term notes (which are included in our statements of financial position in Policyholders account balances and not included in the foregoing table) secured by funding agreements issued to the trust by Prudential Insurance and included in our Retirement segment. The funding agreements provide cash flow sufficient for the debt service on the related medium term notes. The medium term notes are sold in transactions not requiring registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The notes have fixed or floating interest rates and original maturities ranging from five to ten years. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of such notes totaled $3.5 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, out of a total authorized amount of up to $15 billion. The decrease in outstanding aggregate principal amount of such notes is due to maturities in excess of issuances during 2010. Our ability to issue under this program depends on market conditions. The aggregate maturities of these notes over the next 12 months are approximately $302 million. We intend to repay the maturing notes through a combination of cash flows from asset maturities, asset sales, new liability origination and internal sources of funds. Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2010, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding maintained an aggregate of $4.108 billion of unsecured committed credit facilities. There were no outstanding borrowings under these credit facilities as of December 31, 2010 or as of the date of this filing. Each of the facilities is available to the applicable borrowers up to the aggregate committed credit and may be used for general corporate purposes, including as backup liquidity for our commercial paper programs. Any borrowings under the credit facilities would mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities and would bear interest at the rates set forth in the applicable credit agreement. 241 Table of Contents This $4.108 billion of committed credit facilities consists of three separate five year credit facilities: Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding are parties to a $698 million five year credit facility that expires in May 2012, which includes 21 financial institutions, and a $2.16 billion credit facility, of which $180 million expires in December 2011 and $1.98 billion expires in December 2012, which includes 20 financial institutions. Prudential Financial is the sole borrower party to a separate $1.25 billion five year credit facility that expires in November 2015, which includes 21 financial institutions. Prudential Financial expects to borrow loans under the $1.25 billion facility from time to time for general corporate purposes. These credit facilities contain representations and warranties, covenants and events of default that are customary for facilities of this type. Our ability to borrow under the facilities is conditioned on the continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including, for the facilities shared by Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding, the maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law and, in the case of each of the facilities, Prudential Financials maintenance of a prescribed minimum level of consolidated net worth. For the credit facilities shared by Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding, the minimum level of consolidated net worth of Prudential Financial is $12.5 billion which for this purpose is calculated as U.S. GAAP equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments. For the credit facility on which Prudential Financial is the sole borrower party, the minimum level of consolidated net worth of Prudential Financial is $19.0 billion, which for this purpose is calculated as U.S. GAAP equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As of December 31, 2010, Prudential Insurances total adjusted capital and Prudential Financials consolidated net worth (as defined in the applicable credit agreements) exceeded the minimum amounts required to borrow under the facilities. Our ability to borrow under the facilities is not contingent on our credit ratings, nor subject to material adverse change clauses. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from financial institutions. Ratings Financial strength ratings (which are sometimes referred to as claims paying ratings) and credit ratings are important factors affecting public confidence in an insurer and its competitive position in marketing products. Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations continually review the financial performance and financial condition of the entities they rate, including Prudential Financial and its rated subsidiaries. Our credit ratings are also important for our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and for the cost of such financing. A downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements and or hurt our relationships with creditors, distributors or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively affecting our profitability, liquidity and or capital. In addition, we consider our own risk of non performance in determining the fair value of our liabilities. Therefore, changes in our credit or financial strength ratings may affect the fair value of our liabilities. 242 Table of Contents Financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding the financial ability of an insurance company to meet its obligations under an insurance policy. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies regarding an entitys ability to repay its indebtedness. The following table summarizes the ratings for Prudential Financial and certain of its subsidiaries as of the date of this filing: A.M.Best(1) S&P(2) Moodys(3) Fitch(4) Financial Strength Ratings: The Prudential Insurance Company of America A+ AA A2 A+ PRUCO Life Insurance Company A+ AA A2 A+ PRUCO Life Insurance Company of New Jersey A+ AA NR* A+ Prudential Annuities Life Assurance Corporation A+ AA NR A+ Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company A+ AA A2 A+ The Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd. (Prudential of Japan) NR AA NR NR Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, Ltd. NR AA A2 NR Credit Ratings: Prudential Financial, Inc.: Short term borrowings AMB 1 A 1 P 2 F2 Long term senior debt(5) a A Baa2 BBB+ Junior subordinated long term debt bbb BBB+ Baa3 BBB The Prudential Insurance Company of America: Capital and surplus notes a A Baa1 A Prudential Funding, LLC: Short term debt AMB 1 A 1+ P 2 F1 Long term senior debt a+ AA A3 A PRICOA Global Funding I: Long term senior debt aa AA A2 A+ * NR indicates not rated. (1) A.M. Best Company, which we refer to as A.M. Best, financial strength ratings for insurance companies currently range from A++ (superior) to F (in liquidation). A.M. Bests ratings reflect its opinion of an insurance companys financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. An A.M. Best long term credit rating is an opinion of the ability of an obligor to pay interest and principal in accordance with the terms of the obligation. A.M. Best long term credit ratings range from aaa (exceptional) to d (in default), with ratings from aaa to bbb considered as investment grade. An A.M. Best short term credit rating reflects an opinion of the issuers fundamental credit quality. Ratings range from AMB 1+, which represents an exceptional ability to repay short term debt obligations, to AMB 4, which correlates with a speculative (bb) long term rating. (2) Standard & Poors Rating Services, which we refer to as S&P, financial strength ratings currently range from AAA (extremely strong) to R (regulatory supervision). These ratings reflect S&Ps opinion of an operating insurance companys financial capacity to meet the obligations of its insurance policies in accordance with their terms. A + or indicates relative strength within a category. An S&P credit rating is a current opinion of the creditworthiness of an obligor with respect to a specific financial obligation, a specific class of financial obligations or a specific financial program. S&Ps long term issue credit ratings range from AAA (extremely strong) to D (default). S&P short term ratings range from A 1 (highest category) to D (default). (3) Moodys Investors Service, Inc., which we refer to as Moodys, insurance financial strength ratings currently range from Aaa (exceptional) to C (lowest). Moodys insurance ratings reflect the ability of insurance companies to repay punctually senior policyholder claims and obligations. Numeric modifiers are used to refer to the ranking within the group with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. These modifiers are used to indicate relative strength within a category. Moodys credit ratings currently range from Aaa (highest) to C (default). Moodys credit ratings grade debt according to its investment quality. Moodys considers A1, A2 and A3 rated debt to be upper medium grade obligations, subject to low credit risk. Moodys short term ratings are opinions of the ability of issuers to honor senior financial obligations and contracts. Prime ratings range from Prime 1 (P 1), which represents a superior ability for repayment of senior short term debt obligations, to Prime 3 (P 3), which represents an acceptable ability for repayment of such obligations. Issuers rated Not Prime do not fall within any of the Prime rating categories. (4) Fitch Ratings Ltd., which we refer to as Fitch, financial strength ratings currently range from AAA (exceptionally strong) to D (distressed). Fitchs ratings reflect its assessment of the likelihood of timely payment of policyholder and contractholder obligations. Fitch long term credit ratings currently range from AAA (highest credit quality), which denotes exceptionally strong capacity for timely payment of financial commitments, to D (default). Investment grade ratings range between AAA and BBB. Short term ratings range from F1 (highest credit quality) to C (high default risk). Within long term and short term ratings, a + or a may be appended to a rating to denote relative status within major rating categories. (5) Includes the retail medium term notes program. 243 Table of Contents The ratings set forth above reflect current opinions of each rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. These ratings are not directed toward shareholders and do not in any way reflect evaluations of the safety and security of the Common Stock. These ratings are reviewed periodically and may be changed at any time by the rating agencies. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current ratings in the future. Requirements to post collateral or make other payments, as a result of ratings downgrades, under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, can be satisfied in cash or by posting permissible securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. A ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels as of December 31, 2010 (relating to financial strength ratings in certain cases and credit ratings in other cases) would result in estimated additional collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $198 million as of December 31, 2010. The amount of collateral required to be posted for derivative agreements is also dependent on the fair value of the derivative positions as of the balance sheet date. For additional information regarding the potential impacts of a ratings downgrade on our derivative agreements see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to A for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.7 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to the variable annuity business acquired from Allstate, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $14 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. We believe that the posting of such collateral would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance. Rating agencies use an outlook statement for both industry sectors and individual companies. For an industry sector, a stable outlook generally implies that over the next 12 18 months the rating agency expects ratings to remain unchanged among companies in the sector. Currently, A.M. Best, S&P, Moodys and Fitch all have the U.S. life insurance industry on stable outlook. For a particular company, an outlook generally indicates a medium or long term trend (generally six months to two years) in credit fundamentals, which if continued, may lead to a rating change. These indicators are not necessarily a precursor of a rating change nor do they preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time without notice. A.M. Best, S&P, Moodys and Fitch currently have all of the Companys ratings on stable outlook. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, the rating agencies have heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, have increased the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, have requested additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels, such as the financial strength ratings currently held by our life insurance subsidiaries. In addition, actions we might take to access third party financing or to realign our capital structure may in turn cause rating agencies to reevaluate our ratings. The following is a summary of the significant changes in our ratings and rating outlooks that have occurred from the beginning of 2010 through the date of this filing. On January 29, 2010, Fitch downgraded the junior subordinated long term debt rating of Prudential Financial from BBB to BB+. The outlook on this rating is stable. 244 Table of Contents On June 4, 2010, A.M. Best affirmed the long term senior debt rating of Prudential Financial at a and the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at A+, and revised the outlook from negative to stable. On August 11, 2010, S&P affirmed the long term senior debt rating of Prudential Financial at A and the financial strength ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries at AA . On November 3, 2010, Fitch upgraded Prudential Financials long term senior debt rating to BBB+ from BBB and the junior subordinated long term debt rating to BBB from BB+, and affirmed all of our other ratings. The outlook for all ratings remained stable. In connection with the announcement of our agreement to acquire AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company, all four rating agencies reviewed and affirmed all of our ratings. Contractual Obligation The table below summarizes the future estimated cash payments related to certain contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010. The estimated payments reflected in this table are based on managements estimates and assumptions about these obligations. Because these estimates and assumptions are necessarily subjective, the actual cash outflows in future periods will vary, possibly materially, from those reflected in the table. In addition, we do not believe that our cash flow requirements can be adequately assessed based solely upon an analysis of these obligations, as the table below does not contemplate all aspects of our cash inflows, such as the level of cash flow generated by certain of our investments, nor all aspects of our cash outflows. Estimated Payments Due by Period Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 andthereafter (in millions) Short term and long term debt obligations(1) $ 39,484 $ 3,216 $ 5,113 $ 6,821 $ 24,334 Operating lease obligations(2) 746 187 285 144 130 Purchase obligations: Commitments to purchase or fund investments(3) 5,851 4,587 1,158 29 77 Commercial mortgage loan commitments(4) 2,384 1,662 671 1 50 Other liabilities: Insurance liabilities(5) 1,112,353 39,620 66,115 71,500 935,118 Other(6) 9,364 8,720 644 0 0 Total $ 1,170,182 $ 57,992 $ 73,986 $ 78,495 $ 959,709 (1) The estimated payments due by period for long term debt reflects the contractual maturities of principal, as disclosed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as estimated future interest payments. The payment of principal and estimated future interest for short term debt are reflected in estimated payments due in less than one year. The estimate for future interest payments includes the effect of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting treatment. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning our short term and long term debt. (2) The estimated payments due by period for operating leases reflect the future minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating leases, as disclosed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have no significant capital lease obligations. (3) As discussed in Note 23, we have commitments to purchase or fund investments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. The timing of the fulfillment of certain of these commitments cannot be estimated, therefore the settlement of these obligations are reflected in estimated payments due in less than one year. Commitments to purchase or fund investments include $1.868 billion that we anticipate will ultimately be funded from our separate accounts. Of these separate account commitments, $1.015 billion have recourse to Prudential Insurance if the separate accounts are unable to fund the amounts when due. For further discussion of these separate account commitments, see Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Asset Management Subsidiaries. (4) As discussed in Note 23, loan commitments of our commercial mortgage operations, which are legally binding commitments to extend credit to a counterparty, have been reflected in the contractual obligations table above principally based on the expiration date of the commitment; however, it is possible these loan commitments could be funded prior to their expiration. In certain circumstances the counterparty may also extend the date of the expiration in exchange for a fee. 245 Table of Contents (5) The estimated payments due by period for insurance liabilities reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders and others for future policy benefits, policyholders account balances, policyholders dividends, reinsurance payables and separate account liabilities. These future estimated cash outflows are based on mortality, morbidity, lapse and other assumptions comparable with our experience, consider future premium receipts on current policies in force, and assume market growth and interest crediting consistent with assumptions used in amortizing deferred acquisition costs and valuation of business acquired. These cash outflows are undiscounted with respect to interest and, as a result, the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table of $1,112 billion exceeds the corresponding liability amounts of $453 billion included in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2010. Separate account liabilities are legally insulated from general account obligations, and it is generally expected these liabilities will be fully funded by separate account assets and their related cash flows. We have made significant assumptions to determine the future estimated cash outflows related to the underlying policies and contracts. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, actual cash outflows will differ, possibly materially, from these estimates. (6) The estimated payments due by period for other liabilities includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase, cash collateral for loaned securities, liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, and other miscellaneous liabilities. We also enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, these purchase obligations are not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position as of December 31, 2010. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Guarantees and Other Contingencies In the course of our business, we provide certain guarantees and indemnities to third parties pursuant to which we may be contingently required to make payments now or in the future. See Commitments and Guarantees within Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Contingent Commitments We also have other commitments, some of which are contingent upon events or circumstances not under our control, including those at the discretion of our counterparties. See Commitments and Guarantees within Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these commitments. For further discussion of certain of these commitments that relate to our separate accounts, also see Liquidity and Capital Resources of Subsidiaries Asset Management Subsidiaries. Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have retained or contingent interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities, or variable interests in unconsolidated entities or other similar transactions, arrangements or relationships that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support, that we believe are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or our access to or requirements for capital resources. In addition, we do not have relationships with any unconsolidated entities that are contractually limited to narrow activities that facilitate our transfer of or access to associated assets. 246 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Risk Management, Market Risk and Derivative Instruments Risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns on the underlying assets or liabilities. We consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses. Market risk is the risk of change in the value of financial instruments as a result of absolute or relative changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices or commodity prices. To varying degrees, the investment and trading activities supporting all of our products and services generate exposure to market risk. The market risk incurred and our strategies for managing this risk vary by product. With respect to non variable life insurance products, fixed rate annuities, the fixed rate accounts in our variable life insurance and annuity products, and other finance businesses, we incur market risk primarily in the form of interest rate risk. We manage this risk through asset/liability management and derivative strategies that seek to closely approximate the interest rate sensitivity, but not necessarily the exact cash flow characteristics, of the assets with the estimated interest rate sensitivity of the product liabilities. Our overall objective in these strategies is to limit the net change in value of assets and liabilities arising from interest rate movements within the context of market conditions and other relative opportunities. While it is more difficult to measure the interest sensitivity of our insurance liabilities than that of the related assets, to the extent that we can measure such sensitivities we believe that interest rate movements will generate asset value changes that substantially offset changes in the value of the liabilities relating to the underlying products. Certain products supported by general account investments also expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce the spread between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on our general account investments supporting the contracts. In a declining or sustained low interest rate environment, our ability to achieve desired spreads can become limited by minimum guaranteed crediting rates associated with some of our variable life insurance and annuity products. For variable annuities and variable life insurance products, excluding the fixed rate accounts associated with these products, mutual funds and most separate accounts, we are exposed to the risk that asset based fees may decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to changes in investment prices. We also run the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. The risk of decreased asset based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. While a decrease in our estimates of total gross profits would accelerate amortization and decrease net income in a given period, it would not affect our cash flow or liquidity position. For variable annuity and variable life insurance products with minimum guaranteed death benefits and variable annuity products with living benefits such as guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits, we also face the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments as a result of interest rate, equity market, or market volatility changes may increase our net exposure to the guarantees under these contracts. As part of our risk management strategy, we utilize product design elements such as asset allocation restrictions, an automatic rebalancing element and minimum purchase age requirements, in addition to externally purchased hedging instruments such as interest rate and equity based derivatives to help to hedge or limit our market risk exposure to the benefit features of certain of our variable annuity contracts. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our use of interest rate and equity based derivatives. See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the guaranteed minimum death benefits associated with our variable life and variable annuity contracts, and the guaranteed minimum income, withdrawal, and accumulation benefits associated with our variable annuity contracts. For a discussion of asset based fees associated with our variable life products and our variable annuity contracts, our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and the impact of our guaranteed minimum death and other benefits on the results of our Individual Life and Individual Annuities segments, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Individual 247 Table of Contents Life and Group Insurance Division Individual Life and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division Individual Annuities. For risk management purposes we perform stress scenario testing to monitor the impact of extreme, but realistic adverse market events on our capital adequacy and liquidity. This testing allows us to assess the sensitivity of our businesses to market factors and identify any concentrations of risk. The regulatory capital levels and liquidity of our insurance companies in particular are closely monitored to ensure they remain consistent with our rating objectives. Changes to these ratings could impact our borrowing costs, our ability to access alternative sources of liquidity, and our ability to market certain products. For additional information regarding our liquidity and capital resources see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Market fluctuations or changes in market conditions could also cause a change in consumer sentiment adversely affecting sales and persistency of our long term savings, protection and other investment products. For additional information regarding the potential impacts of interest rate and other market fluctuations as well as general economic and market conditions on our businesses and profitability see Item 1A. Risk Factors. The sources of our exposure to market risk can be divided into two categories, other than trading activities conducted primarily in our insurance and annuity operations, and trading activities conducted primarily in our derivatives trading operations. As part of our management of both other than trading and trading market risks, we use a variety of risk management tools and techniques. These include sensitivity and Value at Risk, or VaR, measures, position and other limits based on type of risk, and various hedging methods. Other Than Trading Activities We hold the majority of our assets for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. We incorporate asset/liability management techniques and other risk management policies and limits into the process of investing our assets. We use derivatives for hedging and other purposes in the asset/liability management process. Insurance and Annuities Products Asset/Liability Management We seek to maintain interest rate and equity exposures within established ranges, which we periodically adjust based on market conditions and the design of related products sold to customers. Our risk managers establish investment risk limits for exposures to any issuer, geographic region, type of security or industry sector and oversee efforts to manage interest rate and equity exposure risk, as well as credit, liquidity and other risks, all within policy constraints set by management and approved by the Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. For additional information regarding the management of our general account investments and our asset mix strategies, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Management of Investments. We use duration and convexity analyses to measure price sensitivity to interest rate changes. Duration measures the relative sensitivity of the fair value of a financial instrument to changes in interest rates. Convexity measures the rate of change of duration with respect to changes in interest rates. We use asset/liability management and derivative strategies to manage our interest rate exposure by legal entity by matching the relative sensitivity of asset and liability values to interest rate changes, or controlling duration mismatch of assets and liabilities. We have target duration mismatch constraints by segment for each insurance entity. In certain markets, primarily outside the U.S., capital market limitations that hinder our ability to acquire assets that closely approximate the duration of some of our liabilities are considered in setting the constraint limits. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the difference between the pre tax duration of assets and the target duration of liabilities in our duration managed portfolios was within our constraint limits. We consider risk based capital and tax implications as well as current market conditions in our asset/liability management strategies. We also perform portfolio stress testing as part of our U.S. regulatory cash flow for major product lines that are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. In this testing, we evaluate the impact of altering our interest 248 Table of Contents sensitive assumptions under various adverse interest rate environments. These interest sensitive assumptions relate to the timing and amount of redemptions and prepayments of fixed income securities and lapses and surrenders of insurance products and the potential impact of any guaranteed minimum interest rates. We evaluate any shortfalls that this cash flow testing reveals to determine if we need to increase statutory reserves or adjust portfolio management strategies. Market Risk Related to Interest Rates Our other than trading assets that subject us to interest rate risk include primarily fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage and other loans and policy loans. In the aggregate, the carrying value of these assets represented 78% of our consolidated assets, other than assets that we held in separate accounts, as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009. With respect to other than trading liabilities, we are exposed to interest rate risk through policyholder account balances relating to interest sensitive life insurance, annuity and other investment type contracts, collectively referred to as investment contracts, and through outstanding short term and long term debt. We assess interest rate sensitivity for other than trading financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives using hypothetical test scenarios that assume either upward or downward 100 basis point parallel shifts in the yield curve from prevailing interest rates, reflecting changes in either credit spreads or the risk free rate. The following tables set forth the net estimated potential loss in fair value from a hypothetical 100 basis point upward shift as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, because this scenario results in the greatest net exposure to interest rate risk of the hypothetical scenarios tested at those dates. While the test scenario is for illustrative purposes only and does not reflect our expectations regarding future interest rates or the performance of fixed income markets, it is a near term, reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. These test scenarios do not measure the changes in value that could result from non parallel shifts in the yield curve, which we would expect to produce different changes in discount rates for different maturities. As a result, the actual loss in fair value from a 100 basis point change in interest rates could be different from that indicated by these calculations. As of December 31, 2010 Notional FairValue Hypothetical FairValue After +100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift HypotheticalChange in FairValue (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities (1) $ 217,694 $ 202,279 $ (15,415 ) Commercial mortgage and other loans 33,129 31,869 (1,260 ) Policy loans 12,781 11,978 (803 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 138,442 563 (1,182 ) (1,745 ) Futures 6,834 0 (43 ) (43 ) Options 23,277 516 427 (89 ) Forwards 11,891 (159 ) (167 ) (8 ) Variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives (2) 204 1,388 1,184 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt (27,093 ) (25,049 ) 2,044 Debt of consolidated variable interest entities (3) (265 ) (265 ) 0 Investment contracts (78,757 ) (76,258 ) 2,499 Bank customer liabilities (1,775 ) (1,762 ) 13 Net estimated potential loss $ (13,623 ) 249 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009 Notional FairValue Hypothetical FairValue After +100Basis Point ParallelYield Curve Shift HypotheticalChange inFair Value (in millions) Financial assets with interest rate risk: Fixed maturities (1) $ 196,473 $ 183,631 $ (12,842 ) Commercial mortgage and other loans 30,693 29,553 (1,140 ) Policy loans 11,837 11,142 (695 ) Derivatives: Swaps $ 114,601 (259 ) (1,876 ) (1,617 ) Futures 3,987 (1 ) (100 ) (99 ) Options 4,809 623 534 (89 ) Forwards 13,507 (15 ) (26 ) (11 ) Variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives(2) (55 ) 534 589 Financial liabilities with interest rate risk: Short term and long term debt (24,054 ) (22,284 ) 1,770 Debt of consolidated variable interest entities(3) (239 ) (239 ) 0 Investment contracts (74,353 ) (72,198 ) 2,155 Bank customer liabilities (1,538 ) (1,526 ) 12 Net estimated potential loss $ (11,967 ) (1) Includes trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and other fixed maturities classified as trading securities under U.S. GAAP, but are held for other than trading activities in our segments that offer insurance, retirement and annuities products. (2) The hypothetical change in fair value related to our variable annuity and other living benefit feature embedded derivatives reflects only the gross fair value change on the embedded derivatives, and excludes any offsetting impact of derivative instruments purchased to hedge such changes in fair value. (3) Included in Other liabilities together with all liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding consolidated variable interest entities. The tables above do not include approximately $163 billion of insurance reserve and deposit liabilities as of December 31, 2010 and $154 billion as of December 31, 2009 which are not considered financial liabilities. We believe that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance liabilities would serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets and liabilities, including investment contracts, which are set forth in these tables. Our net estimated potential loss in fair value as of December 31, 2010 increased $1,656 million from December 31, 2009, primarily reflecting an increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2010. The increase in our fixed maturity securities portfolio in 2010 was primarily due to portfolio growth as a result of reinvestment of net investment income and a net increase in fair value primarily driven by a net decrease in interest rates, mainly from risk free rates. The estimated changes in fair values of our financial assets shown above relate primarily to assets invested to support our insurance liabilities, but do not include separate account assets associated with products for which investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholders rather than by us. Market Risk Related to Equity Prices We actively manage investment equity price risk against benchmarks in respective markets. We benchmark our return on equity holdings against a blend of market indices, mainly the S&P 500 and Russell 2000 for U.S. equities. For foreign equities we benchmark against the Tokyo Price Index, or TOPIX, and the MSCI EAFE, a market index of European, Australian, and Far Eastern equities. We target price sensitivities that approximate those of the benchmark indices. We estimate our investment equity price risk from a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels and measure this risk in terms of the decline in fair market value of equity securities we hold. Using this methodology, our estimated investment equity price risk as of December 31, 2010 was $922 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $9.217 billion to $8.295 billion. Our estimated investment equity price risk using this methodology as of 250 Table of Contents December 31, 2009 was $809 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of equity securities we held at that date from $8.091 billion to $7.282 billion. In calculating these amounts, we exclude separate account equity securities related to products for which the investment risk is borne primarily by the separate account contractholder rather than by us. In addition to equity securities, as indicated above, we hold equity based derivatives primarily to hedge the equity price risk embedded in the living benefit features in some of our variable annuity products, as well as part of our capital hedging program described further below. As of December 31, 2010, our equity based derivatives had notional values of $26.004 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $353 million asset, and the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $204 million asset. As of December 31, 2009, our equity based derivatives had notional values of $7.126 billion, and were reported at fair value as a $532 million asset, and the living benefits features accounted for as embedded derivatives were reported at fair value as a $55 million liability. Our estimated equity price risk associated with living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives, net of the related equity based derivatives used in our living benefits hedging program, was a $87 million benefit as of December 31, 2010 and a $61 million benefit as of December 31, 2009, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels. The higher sensitivity level as of December 31, 2010 primarily reflects the impact of our own risk of non performance on the embedded derivative liabilities, which does not have an offsetting impact on the hedge assets. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the impact of our own risk of non performance on the valuation of the living benefit features accounted for as embedded derivatives. In addition, we expanded our hedging program in the second quarter of 2009 to include a portion of the market exposure related to the overall capital position of our variable annuity business, including the impact of certain statutory reserve exposures. These capital hedges primarily consisted of equity based total return swaps that were designed to partially offset changes in our capital position resulting from market driven changes in certain living and death benefit features of our variable annuity products. Our estimated equity price risk associated with these capital hedges as of December 31, 2009 was a $104 million benefit, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels, which would partially offset an overall decline in our capital position related to the equity market decline. In 2010, we changed the focus of our capital hedge program for the equity price risk associated with our variable annuities business to a broader view of equity market exposure of the statutory capital of the Company as a whole. In the second quarter of 2010, we removed the equity component of our capital hedge within the Individual Annuities segment and entered into equity index linked derivative transactions that are designed to mitigate the impact on statutory capital of a severe equity market stress event. The program now focuses on tail risk rather than general equity market declines in order to protect our capital in a more cost effective manner under stress scenarios. We continue to assess the composition of our hedging program on an ongoing basis, and we may change it from time to time based on our evaluation of the Companys risk position or other factors. Our estimated equity price risk associated with these capital hedges as of December 31, 2010 was a $3 million benefit, estimated based on a hypothetical 10% decline in equity benchmark market levels, which would partially offset an overall decline in our capital position related to the equity market decline. While these scenarios are for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect our expectations regarding future performance of equity markets or of our equity portfolio, they represent near term reasonably possible hypothetical changes that illustrate the potential impact of such events. These scenarios consider only the direct impact on fair value of declines in equity benchmark market levels and not changes in asset based fees recognized as revenue, changes in our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs, or changes in any other assumptions such as market volatility or mortality, utilization or persistency rates in our variable annuity contracts that could also impact the fair value of our living benefit features. In addition, these scenarios do not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as potential differences in the performance of the investment funds underlying the variable annuity products relative to the market indices we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. The impact of basis risk could result in larger differences between the change in fair value of the equity based derivatives and the related living benefit features, in comparison to the scenarios above. 251 Table of Contents Market Risk Related to Foreign Currency Exchange Rates We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in our domestic general account investment portfolios, other proprietary investment portfolios and through our operations in foreign countries and foreign currency liability issuances. Our exposure to foreign currency risk within the domestic general account investment portfolios supporting our U.S. insurance operations and other domestic proprietary investment portfolios arises primarily from investments that are denominated in foreign currencies. We generally hedge substantially all domestic general account foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and other domestic proprietary foreign currency investments into U.S. dollars in order to mitigate the risk that the cash flows or fair value of these investments fluctuates as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We generally do not hedge all of the foreign currency risk of our investments in equity securities of unaffiliated foreign entities. Our operations in foreign countries create the following three additional sources of foreign currency risk: First, we reflect the operating results of our foreign operations in our financial statements based on the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. We hedge some of these foreign currency operating results as part of our overall risk management strategy. We generally hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations primarily in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Europe. Second, we translate our equity investment in foreign operations into U.S. dollars using the foreign currency exchange rate at the financial statement period end date. For our equity investments in our Japanese and Taiwanese operations, we generally hedge this exposure through a combination of issuing foreign denominated liabilities outside these operations and by holding U.S. dollar denominated securities in the investment portfolios of these operations. Third, our international insurance operations may hold investments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of those operations on an unhedged basis in addition to the aforementioned equity hedges resulting from foreign subsidiaries investing in U.S. dollar denominated investments. Most significantly, our Japanese operations hold U.S. dollar denominated investments in their investment portfolios in excess of our equity investment in such operations. For a discussion of our Japanese operations U.S. dollar denominated investment holdings, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Portfolio Composition, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for Financial Services Businesses by Segment International Insurance and Investments Division. We manage our investment foreign currency exchange rate risks, described above, within specified limits. Foreign currency exchange risks for our domestic general account investment portfolio and the unhedged portion of our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries are managed using VaR based analysis. This statistical technique estimates, at a specified confidence level, the potential pre tax loss in portfolio market value that could occur over an assumed time horizon due to adverse market movements. The estimated VaR as of December 31, 2010 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $133 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $3.491 billion to $3.358 billion. The estimated VaR as of December 31, 2009 for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $95 million, representing a hypothetical decline in fair market value of these foreign currency assets from $3.188 billion to $3.093 billion. The estimated one month VaR as of December 31, 2010 increased driven by a reduction in our hedging activities related to our equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, primarily related to our Korean insurance subsidiary, and a higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during 2010. The average VaR for foreign currency exchange risks in our domestic general account portfolio and the unhedged portion of equity investment in foreign subsidiaries, measured monthly at a 95% 252 Table of Contents confidence level over a one month time horizon, was $125 million during 2010 and $114 million during 2009. The average one month VaR for 2010 increased in comparison to 2009 due to the reduction in hedging activities discussed above and the higher level of exchange rate volatility experience during 2010. These calculations use historical price volatilities and correlation data at a 95% confidence level. We discuss limitations of VaR models below. The estimated VaR for instruments used to hedge our anticipated exposure to adjusted operating income fluctuations resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our International operations, measured at a 95% confidence level and using a one month time horizon, was $134 million as of December 31, 2010 and $129 million as of December 31, 2009. The increased VaR for foreign currency exchange risks primarily reflects increased volatility in exchange rates for Japanese yen and Korean won. Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. We are also a party to financial instruments that may contain derivative instruments that are embedded in the financial instruments. We are exposed to credit related losses in the event of non performance by counterparties to financial derivative transactions. We manage credit risk by entering into derivative transactions with major international financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties, and by obtaining collateral where appropriate. Additionally, limits are set on single party credit exposures which are subject to periodic management review. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our derivative activities and credit risk as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We use derivative financial instruments primarily to seek to reduce market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, as well as equity prices, and to alter interest rate or foreign currency exposures arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities. In addition, we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate risk associated with some of our benefit features of our variable annuity contracts. The notional amount of derivative instruments increased $43 billion in 2010, from $137 billion as of December 31, 2009 to $180 billion as of December 31, 2010, driven by an increase in interest rate derivatives, primarily related to our variable annuity hedging activities, and an increase in investment only, fee based stable value products sold in our retirement segment, which are accounted for as derivatives, as well as an increase in equity based derivatives related to our capital hedge program. We use credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments, and purchase credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio. For additional information regarding our exposure to credit derivatives, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Realized Investment Gains and Losses and General Account Investments General Account Investments Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Derivative Exposure to Public Fixed Maturities. Trading Activities We engage in trading activities primarily in connection with our derivatives trading operations. We maintain trading positions in various foreign exchange instruments and commodities, primarily to facilitate transactions for our clients. Market risk affects the values of our trading positions through fluctuations in absolute or relative interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, securities and commodity prices. We seek to use security positions and forwards, futures, options and other derivatives to limit exposure to interest rate and other market risks. We also trade derivative financial instruments that allow our clients to manage exposure to interest rate, currency and other market risks. Our derivative transactions involve both exchange listed and over the counter contracts and are generally short term in duration. We act both as a broker, buying and selling exchange listed contracts for our customers, and as a dealer, by entering into futures and security transactions as a principal. As a broker, we assume counterparty and credit risks that we seek to mitigate by using margin or other credit enhancements and by establishing trading limits and credit lines. As a dealer, we are subject to market risk as 253 Table of Contents well as counterparty and credit risk. We manage the market risk associated with trading activities through hedging activities and formal policies, risk and position limits, counterparty and credit limits, daily position monitoring, and other forms of risk management. Value at Risk VaR is one of the tools we use to monitor and manage our exposure to the market risk of our trading activities. We calculate a VaR that encompasses our trading activities using a 95% confidence level. The VaR method incorporates the risk factors to which the market value of our trading activities is exposed, which consist of interest rates, including credit spreads, foreign currency exchange rates, and commodity prices, estimates of volatilities from historical data, the sensitivity of our trading activities to changes in those market factors and the correlations of those factors. The total VaR for our trading activities, which considers our combined exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value at a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon, was $1 million as of December 31, 2010 and $2 million as of December 31, 2009. The largest component of this total VaR as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 was related to commodities price risk. The total average daily VaR for our trading activities considering our exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and commodities price risk, expressed in terms of adverse changes to fair value with a 95% confidence level over a one day time horizon, was $1 million during both 2010 and 2009. The largest component of both periods total average daily VaR was related to commodities price risk. Limitations of VaR Models Although VaR models are a recognized tool for risk management, they have inherent limitations, including reliance on historical data that may not be indicative of future market conditions or trading patterns. Accordingly, VaR models should not be viewed as a predictor of future results. We may incur losses that could be materially in excess of the amounts indicated by the models on a particular trading day or over a period of time, and there have been instances when results have fallen outside the values generated by our VaR models. A VaR model does not estimate the greatest possible loss. The results of these models and analysis thereof are subject to the judgment of our risk management personnel. 254 Table of Contents 
 
