ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation for a further discussion of the PCA. Sithe owns and operates 19 generating stations in North America. Currently, Sithe has a total generating capacity of 1,321 MWs in operation and 230 MWs under construction. Generations wholesale marketing unit, Power Team, is a major wholesale marketer of energy that uses Generations energy generation portfolio, transmission rights and expertise to ensure delivery of energy to Generations wholesale customers under long term and short term contracts. Power Team is responsible for supplying the load requirements of ComEd and PECO and markets the remaining energy in the wholesale and spot markets. Generating Resources The generating resources of Generation, including its ownership share of AmerGen and Sithe, consist of the following: Type of Capacity MW Owned Generation Assets(1,2) Nuclear 14,547 Fossil 8,210 Hydro 1,584 24,341 Long term Contracts(3) 13,900 AmerGen and Sithe(2) 1,900 Available Resources 40,141 Under Construction(2) 2,536 Total Generating Resources 42,677 (1)See ITEM 1. Business Generation "Fuel" for sources of fuels used in electric generation. (2)Based on Generations percentage ownership. (3)Contracts range from 1 to 29 years. The owned generating resources of Generation are located primarily in the Midwest (approximately 53% of capacity), the Mid Atlantic and New England regions (approximately 36% of capacity), and the Texas region (approximately 11%). AmerGens generating resources are in the Midwest and the Mid Atlantic regions. Sithes generating resources are primarily in New York. The remaining plants are located throughout North America. On April 25, 2002, Generation acquired two natural gas and oil fired plants from TXU Corp. (TXU). The purchase included the 893 MW Mountain Creek Steam Electric Station in Dallas and the 1,441 MW Handley Steam Electric Station in Fort Worth. The transaction included a PPA for TXU to purchase power during the months of May through September from 2002 through 2006. During the periods covered by the PPA, TXU makes fixed capacity payments, variable expense payments, and provides fuel to Exelon in return for exclusive rights to the energy and capacity of the generation plants. 15 On November 1, 2002, Generation purchased the assets of Sithe New England Holdings, LLC (Sithe New England), a subsidiary of Sithe, and related power marketing operations. Sithe New Englands primary assets are gas fired facilities currently under construction. Sithe New England owns 4,066 MWs of generation capacity, consisting of 1,645 MWs in operation and 2,421 MWs under construction. Sithe New Englands generation facilities are located primarily in Massachusetts. For a further discussion of Sithe and the Sithe New England asset acquisition, see "Sithe" section, which follows within ITEM 1. Business Generation. The generation assets transferred to Generation by ComEd and PECO during the 2001 corporate restructuring, the generating plants acquired in 2002 and Generations investments in Sithe and AmerGen provide a critical mass of generation capacity and a leadership position in the wholesale energy markets. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can take advantage of its scale and scope to negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Nuclear Facilities. Generation has direct ownership interests in eight nuclear generating stations, consisting of 16 units with 14,547 MW of capacity (Exelons share). For additional information, see ITEM 2. Properties. All of the nuclear generating stations are operated by Generation, with the exception of Salem Generating Station (Salem), which is operated by PSE&G Nuclear, LLC. In addition, AmerGen owns three nuclear generating stations consisting of three units with 2,481 MWs of capacity, of which Generations interest is 1,241 MWs. See the AmerGen section, which follows within ITEM 1. Business Generation, for further discussion of the three nuclear facilities owned by AmerGen. In 2002, over 50% of Generations electric supply was generated from the nuclear generating facilities. During 2002 and 2001, the nuclear generating facilities operated by Generation, operated at weighted average capacity factors of 92.7% and 94.4%, respectively. See the AmerGen section, which follows within ITEM 1. Business Generation, for a further discussion of the three nuclear facilities owned by AmerGen. Licenses. Exelon has 40 year operating licenses from the NRC for each of its nuclear units. Generation applied to the NRC in July 2001 for renewal of the Peach Bottom units 2 and 3 licenses and has applied for the extension of the operating license for Dresden units 2 and 3 and Quad Cities Station in January 2003. The operating license renewal process takes approximately four to five years from the commencement of the project at a site until completion of the NRCs review. The NRC review process takes approximately two years from the docketing of an application. Each requested license extension is expected to be for 20 years beyond the current license expiration. Depreciation provisions are based on the estimated useful lives of the units, which assume the extension of these 16 licenses for all of the nuclear generating stations. The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for Generations nuclear facilities in service. Station Unit In Service Date Current License Expiration Braidwood 1 2 1988 1988 2026 2027 Byron 1 2 1985 1987 2024 2026 Dresden 2 3 1970 1971 2009 2011 LaSalle 1 2 1984 1984 2022 2023 Quad Cities 1 2 1973 1973 2012 2012 Limerick 1 2 1986 1990 2024 2029 Peach Bottom 2 3 1974 1974 2013 2014 Salem 1 2 1977 1981 2016 2020 Regulation of Nuclear Power Generation and Security. Generation is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to its nuclear generating stations, including the licensing of operation of each station. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security, environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of such licenses. Changes in regulations by the NRC may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures for nuclear generating facilities or increased operating costs of nuclear generating units. The NRC oversight process uses objective, timely and safety significant criteria in assessing performance. It also takes into account improvements in the performance of the nuclear industry over the past twenty years. Nuclear plant performance is measured by a combination of 18 objective performance indicators and by the NRC inspection program. These are closely focused on those plant activities having the greatest impact on safety and overall risk. In addition, the NRC conducts periodic reviews of the effectiveness of each operators programs to identify and correct problems. The inspection program is designed to verify the accuracy of performance indicator information and to assess performance based on safety cornerstones. These include initiating events, mitigating systems, integrity of barriers to release of radioactivity, emergency preparedness, occupational and public radiation safety, and physical protection. The NRC evaluates licensee performance by analyzing two distinct inputs: inspection findings resulting from the NRC inspection program and performance indicators reported by the licensees on a quarterly basis. NRC reactor oversight results for the fourth quarter of 2002 indicate that the performance indicators for the Exelon nuclear plants are all in the highest performance band, with the exception of one indicator for Dresden Unit 3, which is still considered to be acceptable performance within that indicator by the NRC. Exelon does not fully know the impact that future terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism may have on its industry in general and on Exelon in particular. The events of September 11, 2001 have 17 affected Exelons operating procedures and costs. Exelon has initiated security measures to safeguard its employees and critical operations and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of Exelons energy production and delivery systems. Generation has met or exceeded all security measures mandated by the NRC for nuclear plants after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. These security measures resulted in increased costs in 2002 of $19 million, of which approximately $10 million was capitalized. On a continuing basis, Exelon is evaluating enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assessing long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expense to develop and implement, but will provide increased assurances as to Exelons ability to continue to operate under difficult times. Nuclear Waste Disposal. There are no facilities for the reprocessing or permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel (SNF) currently in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. Generation currently stores all SNF generated by nuclear generation facilities in on site storage pools and, in the case of Peach Bottom and Dresden, some SNF has been placed in dry cask storage facilities. Not all of Generations SNF storage pools have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the plant. Generation is developing dry cask storage facilities, as necessary to support operations. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA), the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is responsible for the selection and development of repositories for, and the disposal of, SNF and high level radioactive waste. As required by the NWPA, Generation is a party to contracts with the DOE (Standard Contract) to provide for disposal of SNF from its nuclear generating stations. In accordance with the NWPA and the Standard Contract, Generation pays the DOE one mill ($.001) per kWh of net nuclear generation for the cost of nuclear fuel long term storage and disposal. This fee may be adjusted prospectively in order to ensure full cost recovery. The NWPA and the Standard Contract required the DOE to begin taking possession of SNF generated by nuclear generating units by no later than January 31, 1998. The DOE, however, failed to meet that deadline and its performance will be delayed significantly. The DOEs current estimate for opening a SNF permanent disposal facility is 2010. This extended delay in SNF acceptance by the DOE has led to Generations adoption of dry storage at its Dresden, Quad Cities and Peach Bottom Stations and its consideration of dry storage at other stations. In July 1998, ComEd filed a complaint against the United States Government (Government) in the United States Court of Federal Claims (Court) seeking to recover damages caused by the DOEs failure to honor its contractual obligation to begin disposing of SNF in January 1998. This litigation was assumed by Generation in the 2001 corporate restructuring. In August 2001, the Court granted Generations motion for partial summary judgment for liability on ComEds breach of contract claim. In November 2001, the Government filed two partial summary judgment motions relating to certain damage issues in the case, as well as two motions to dismiss claims other than the breach of contract claim. On August 30, 2002, after taking discovery related to certain damages, Generation filed briefs in response to the DOEs motions. The Court has postponed the time for the DOE to file reply briefs while it entertains additional DOE discovery motions. In July 2000, PECO entered into an agreement with the DOE relating to Generations Peach Bottom nuclear generating unit to address the DOEs failure to begin removal of SNF in January 1998 as required by the Standard Contract (Amendment). Under that agreement, the DOE agreed to provide PECO with credits against PECOs future contributions to the Nuclear Waste Fund over the next ten years to compensate PECO for SNF storage costs incurred as a result of the DOEs breach of the Standard Contract. The agreement also provides that, upon PECOs request, the DOE will take title to the SNF and the interim storage facility at Peach Bottom, provided certain conditions are met. Generation assumed this contract in 2001 corporate restructuring. 18 In November 2000, eight utilities with nuclear power plants filed a Joint Petition for Review against the DOE with the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit seeking to invalidate that portion of the agreement providing for credits to PECO against nuclear waste fund payments on the ground that such provision is a violation of the NWPA. PECO intervened as a defendant in that case, and Generation assumed the claim in the 2001 corporate restructuring. On September 24, 2002, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit ruled that the fee adjustment provision of the agreement violates the NWPA and therefore is null and void. The Court did not hold that the agreement as a whole is invalid. The Amendment provides that if any portion of the Amendment is found to be void, the DOE and Generation agree to negotiate in good faith and attempt to reach an enforceable agreement consistent with the spirit and purpose of the Amendment. That provision further provides that should a major term be declared void, and the DOE and Generation cannot reach a subsequent agreement, the entire Amendment would be rendered null and void, the original Peach Bottom Standard Contract would remain in effect and the parties would return to pre Amendment status. Generation has begun negotiations with the DOE and those negotiations are ongoing. Under the agreement, Generation has received approximately $40 million in credits against contributions to the nuclear waste fund. In April 2001, an individual filed suit against the DOE with the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania seeking to invalidate the agreement on the grounds that the DOE has violated the National Environmental Policy Act and the Administrative Procedure Act. PECO intervened as a defendant and moved to dismiss the complaint. Generation assumed the defense in 2001 corporate restructuring. On September 30, 2002, the Court granted Generations motion and dismissed the lawsuit on the ground that the Court did not have jurisdiction over the matter. The Standard Contract with the DOE also requires that PECO and ComEd pay the DOE a one time fee applicable to nuclear generation through April 6, 1983. PECOs fee has been paid. Pursuant to the Standard Contract, ComEd elected to pay the one time fee of $277 million, with interest to the date of payment, just prior to the first delivery of SNF to the DOE. As of December 31, 2002, the unfunded liability for the one time fee with interest was $858 million. The liabilities for spent nuclear fuel disposal costs, including the one time fee, were transferred to Generation as part of the 2001 corporate restructuring. As a by product of their operations, nuclear generation units produce low level radioactive waste (LLRW). LLRW is accumulated at each generation station and permanently disposed of at federally licensed disposal facilities. The Federal Low Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 (Waste Policy Act) provides that states may enter into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and restrict use of those facilities to waste generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into an agreement, although neither state currently has an operational site and none is currently expected to be operational until after 2011. Pennsylvania, which had agreed to be the host site for LLRW disposal facilities for generators located in Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and West Virginia, has suspended the search for a permanent disposal site. Generation has temporary on site storage capacity at its nuclear generation stations for limited amounts of LLRW and has been shipping such waste to LLRW disposal facilities in South Carolina and Utah. The number of LLRW disposal facilities is decreasing, and Generation anticipates the possibility of continuing difficulties in disposing of LLRW. Generation is pursuing alternative disposal strategies for LLRW, including a LLRW reduction program to minimize cost impacts. The National Energy Policy Act of 1992 requires that the owners of nuclear reactors pay for the decommissioning and decontamination of the DOE uranium enrichment facilities. The total cost to all domestic utilities covered by this requirement was originally $150 million per year through 2006, of which Generations share was approximately $20 million per year. Payments are adjusted annually to reflect inflation. Including the effect of inflation, Generation paid $25 million in 2002. 19 Insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. As of January 1, 2003, the current limit is $9.5 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. Generation carries the maximum available commercial insurance of $300 million and the remaining $9.2 billion is provided through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. Under the Price Anderson Act, all nuclear reactor licensees can be assessed up to $89 million per reactor per incident, payable at no more than $10 million per reactor per incident per year. This assessment is subject to inflation and state premium taxes. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims. The Price Anderson Act expired on August 1, 2002 but existing facilities, including those owned and operated by Generation, remain covered. The Price Anderson Act provisions relating to commercial facilities were extended through 2003. The extension affects facilities obtaining NRC operating licenses in 2003. Existing facilities are unaffected by the extension. Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to its nuclear plants. In the event of an accident, insurance proceeds must first be used for reactor stabilization and site decontamination. If the decision is made to decommission the facility, a portion of the insurance proceeds will be allocated to a fund, which Generation is required by the NRC to maintain, to provide for decommissioning the facility. Generation is unable to predict the timing of the availability of insurance proceeds to Generation and the amount of such proceeds that would be available. Under the terms of the various insurance agreements, Generation could be assessed up to $124 million for losses incurred at any plant insured by the insurance companies. In the event that one or more acts of terrorism cause accidental property damage within a twelve month period from the first accidental property damage under one or more policies for all insureds, the maximum recovery for all losses by all insureds will be an aggregate of $3.2 billion plus such additional amounts as the insurer may recover for all such losses from reinsurance, indemnity, and any other source, applicable to such losses. The $3.2 billion maximum recovery limit is not applicable, however, in the event of a "certified act of terrorism" as defined in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, as a result of government indemnity. Generally, a "certified act of terrorism" is defined in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act to be any act, certified by the U.S. government, to be an act of terrorism committed on behalf of a foreign person or interest. Additionally, Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), that provides replacement power cost insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. The premium for this coverage is subject to assessment for adverse loss experience. Generations maximum share of any assessment is $46 million per year. Recovery under this insurance for terrorist acts is subject to the $3.2 billion aggregate limit and secondary to the property insurance described above. This limit would also not apply in cases of certified acts of terrorism under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act as described above. In addition, Generation participates in the American Nuclear Insurers Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. This program was modified, effective January 1, 1998, to provide coverage to all workers whose "nuclear related employment" began on or after the commencement date of reactor operations. Generation will not be liable for a retrospective assessment under this new policy. However, in the event losses incurred under the small number of policies in the old program exceed accumulated reserves, a maximum retroactive assessment of up to $50 million could apply. Generation does not carry any business interruption insurance for nuclear operations other than the NEIL coverage. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations financial condition and results of operations. 20 Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permits ComEd, and the PUC permits PECO to collect from its customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. As of December 31, 2002, Generations estimate of its nuclear facilities decommissioning cost is $7.4 billion in current year (2003) dollars. The liability for decommissioning each generation station is recognized ratably over that generating stations service life. At December 31, 2002, the decommissioning liability recorded in accumulated depreciation and deferred credits and other liabilities was $2.8 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired and are currently estimated to begin in 2029 for plants currently in operation. Decommissioning costs are currently recoverable by ComEd and PECO through regulated rates and are remitted to Generation for deposit in the decommissioning trust funds. In 2002, ComEd and PECO remitted to Generation approximately $102 million in decommissioning collections. Generation believes that the amounts being remitted to it by ComEd and PECO and the earnings on nuclear decommissioning trust funds will be sufficient to fully fund Generations decommissioning obligations. See The Critical Accounting Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncements section within ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation for a further discussion of Nuclear Decommissioning. In connection with the transfer of ComEds nuclear generating stations to Generation, ComEd asked the ICC to approve the continued recovery of decommissioning costs after the transfer. On December 20, 2000, the ICC issued an order finding that the ICC has the legal authority to permit ComEd to continue to recover decommissioning costs from customers for the six year term of the PPAs between ComEd and Generation. Under the ICC order, ComEd is permitted to recover $73 million per year from customers for decommissioning for the years 2001 through 2004. In 2005 and 2006, ComEd can recover up to $73 million annually, depending upon the portion of the output of the former ComEd nuclear stations that ComEd purchases from Generation. Under the ICC order, subsequent to 2006, there will be no further recoveries of decommissioning costs from customers. The ICC order also provides that any surplus funds after the nuclear stations are decommissioned must be refunded to customers. The ICC order has been upheld on appeal in the Illinois Appellate Court and the Illinois Supreme Court has declined to review the Appellate Courts decision. Nuclear decommissioning costs associated with the nuclear generating stations formerly owned by PECO continue to be recovered currently through rates charged by PECO to regulated customers. These amounts are remitted to Generation as allowed by the PUC. Under an agreement effective September 2001, PECO remits $29 million per year to Generation related to nuclear decommissioning cost recovery. On December 31, 2002, PECO filed with the PUC for an annual increase in its decommissioning cost recovery of $20 million effective June 1, 2004. The filing is consistent with provisions in the 1998 settlement and the settlement agreement entered into by PECO in 2000 related to the PUCs approval of the Merger, which require PECO to update the cost of decommissioning every five years. The additional amount requested is expected to be reduced as it does not reflect pending life extensions at Peach Bottom. The approval of the life extensions is expected by mid 2003. Zion, a two unit nuclear generation station, and Dresden Unit 1 formerly owned by ComEd, have permanently ceased power generation. ComEd transferred Zion and Dresden Unit 1, as well as their related decommissioning liabilities and trust funds, to Generation as part of the 2001 corporate restructuring. Zion and Dresden Unit 1s SNF is currently being stored in on site storage pools and dry cask storage, respectively, until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. Generation has 21 recorded a liability of $1.4 billion, which represents the estimated cost of decommissioning Zion and Dresden Unit 1 in current year dollars. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after 2013 and 2030 for Zion and Dresden Unit 1, respectively. Fossil and Hydroelectric Facilities. Fossil units include: base load units the coal fired units at Eddystone and Cromby and Generations interests in the Conemaugh Stations and Keystone; intermediate units the Cromby, Eddystone, and Mystic units that have dual fuel (oil/gas) capability; Handley, Mountain Creek and New Boston are gas fueled stations, Wyman is an oil fueled station; and peaking units oil or gas fired steam turbines, combustion turbines and internal combustion units at various locations. Hydroelectric facilities include: base load units at the Conowingo run of river hydroelectric facility on the Susquehanna River in Harford County, Maryland; and intermediate units at the Muddy Run pumped storage hydroelectric facility in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Generation operates all of its fossil and hydroelectric facilities other than La Porte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman. In 2002, approximately 6% of Generations electric output was generated from Generations owned fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. Generation is in the process of improving the operating performance and efficiency of its units. Recent activities include the following: a new eight unit 350 MW gas facility was brought on line in July 2002 in the Mid West region, control system upgrades at the Conowingo and Muddy Run hydro facilities to improve plant efficiency, and completion of a major turbine overhaul at the Cromby coal unit and further turbine overhauls are being studied for economic feasibility. The controls at all combustion turbine facilities have been upgraded to provide remote start capability for all units, enabling immediate response time to capture fluctuations in electric market prices. Additionally, Generation anticipates the construction of the new generating facilities in the New England region (Mystic 8&9 and Fore River) will be completed in the 2nd quarter of 2003. They are state of the art combined gas turbine stations. The Fore River station has dual fuel (oil/gas) capability. The plants will increase capacity by 2,421 MWs. Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, an economic one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by FERC. The Muddy Run and Conowingo facilities have licenses that expire in September 2014. Generation is considering applying to FERC for license extensions of 40 years for both plants, but the duration of any license extension will depend on then current policies at FERC. The process of applying for an extension to an existing hydroelectric license generally takes at least eight years. 22  Insurance. Generation does not carry business interruption insurance for its fossil and hydroelectric operations other than its coverage for Sithe New England. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations financial condition and results of operations. Long Term Contracts In addition to owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the long term contracts described below: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MW) Midwest Generation, LLC Various in Illinois 2004 4,879 Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2013 1,158 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP Franklin, Georgia 2030 925 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Others Various 2004 to 2022 6,108 Total 13,900 Midwest Generation, LLC Contract. Generation is a party to contracts with Midwest Generation, LLC (Midwest Generation), a subsidiary of Edison Mission Energy. Under the contracts, Generation initially had the right to purchase through 2004 the capacity and energy associated with approximately 9,460 MW of fossil fired generation stations located in Northern Illinois, formerly owned by ComEd. The generation units include base load, intermediate and peaking units. Under the contracts, Generation pays a fixed capacity charge that varies by season and a fixed energy charge. The capacity charge is reduced to the extent the plants are unable to generate and deliver energy when requested. Under the contracts, Generation has annual rights to reduce the capacity and related energy purchase obligations, and some of these rights were recently exercised. On January 1, 2002, Generation released all of the 355 MW of oil fixed peaking capacity that is covered by the contracts. On July 1, 2002, Generation elected to exercise its call option on 1,265 MWs of capacity for 2003. Generation has a total of 4,879 MWs of capacity under the Coal, Collins Generating Station (Collins) and Peaking Unit (Peaking) PPAs, of which Generation retains 1,918 MWs of option capacity under the Collins and Peaking PPAs as well as 1,265 MWs of option capacity under the Coal Generation PPA. Generation will decide whether to exercise its options in 2003, effective January 1, 2004, depending on the projected need for capacity and energy to fulfill obligations under the agreement with ComEd or otherwise, taking into account forward market conditions and other alternatives. On October 2, 2002, Generation notified Midwest Generation of its exercise of termination options under the existing Collins and Peaking Unit (Peaking) PPAs. Generation exercised its termination options on 1,727 MWs in 2003 and 2004. In 2003, Generation will take 1,778 MWs of option capacity under the Collins and Peaking Unit Agreements as well as 1,265 MWs of option capacity under the Coal Generation PPA. Federal Power Act The Federal Power Act gives FERC exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, all public utilities subject to FERCs jurisdiction are required to file rate schedules with FERC with respect to wholesale sales or transmission of electricity. Tariffs established under FERC regulation give Generation access to transmission lines that enables it to participate in competitive wholesale markets. Because Generation sells power in the wholesale markets, Generation is deemed to be a public utility for purposes of the Federal Power Act and is required to obtain FERCs acceptance of the rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. Generation has received authorization from FERC to sell 23 energy at market based rates. As is customary with market based rate schedules, FERC reserved the right to suspend market based rate authority on a retroactive basis if it is subsequently determined that Generation or any of its affiliates exercised or have the ability to exercise market power. FERC is also authorized to order refunds if it finds that market based rates are unreasonable. In April 1996, FERC issued Order No. 888 (Order 888). The intent of Order 888 was to open the transmission grid subject to FERCs jurisdiction to all eligible customers, including sellers of power and retail customers, in states where retail access is approved. Order 888 requires that owners of transmission facilities provide access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. In connection with Order 888, FERC issued Order No. 889 (Order 889). Under Order 889, PECO and ComEd were required to file Standards of Conduct, which governed the communication of non public information between transmission personnel and employees of any affiliated wholesale merchant function. FERC recently issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for the Standards of Conduct for Transmission Providers. Among other things, FERC is considering whether it would be appropriate for it to adopt measures that would limit the amount of capacity an affiliate can hold in a transmission provider. Generations business would be impacted if any of these measures were instituted. As described above under Energy Delivery Transmission Services, in December 1999, FERC issued Order 2000, to encourage the voluntary formation of RTOs by December 2001 that would provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. One of the intended benefits of establishing these entities is to eliminate or reduce transmission charges imposed by successive transmission systems when wholesale generators cross several transmission systems to deliver capacity. However, inconsistencies in the pace of RTO development and significant state public utility commission concerns caused FERC to indefinitely extend its operational target date of December 2001. PJM has been approved as an RTO, as has the Midwest ISO. However, ISOs operating in other regions where Generation owns facilities have not yet been fully approved as RTOs. FERC has also proposed rulemakings to mandate a standard market design (SMD) for the wholesale markets. Order 2000 and the proposed SMD rule contemplate that the jurisdictional transmission owners in a region will turn over operating authority over their transmission facilities to an RTO or other independent entity for the purpose of providing open transmission access. As a result, the independent entity will become the provider of the transmission service and the transmission owners will recover their revenue requirements through the independent entity. The transmission owners will remain responsible for maintaining and physically operating their transmission facilities. The SMD rulemaking proposal would also require RTOs to operate an organized bid based wholesale market for those who wish to sell their generation through the market and to implement a financially based system for dealing with congestion on transmission lines known as "locational marginal pricing" (LMP). FERC has also issued proposals to encourage RTO development, independent control of the transmission grid and expansion of the transmission grid by providing enhanced returns on equity for transmission assets. FERCs SMD proposal has met with substantial opposition from a number of parties, including some state regulators and other governmental officials. As a result, FERC has delayed issuance of a final rule indefinitely while it seeks further comment. FERC Order 2000 has not led to the rapid development of RTOs and FERC has not yet finalized its SMD proposal, due in part to the resistance noted above. Exelon supports both of these proposals but cannot predict whether they will be successful, what impact they may ultimately have on Exelons transmission rates, revenues and operation of its transmission facilities, or whether they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. To the extent ComEd and PECO have POLR obligations, and may at some point no longer have long term supply contracts with Generation for their load, the ability of ComEd and PECO to cost effectively serve their POLR load obligation will depend on the development of such markets. 24 In late 2001, FERC initiated an effort to standardize generator interconnection policies and procedures. When FERC issues a final rule on this subject, it is expected that generators will benefit from not having to deal on a case by case basis with different and sometimes inconsistent requirements of different transmission providers. Several other actions by FERC should be noted. First, FERC announced in late November 2001 a new market power test, the Supply Margin Assessment (SMA) screen. Under the SMA, if within a particular geographic market an energy companys generation capacity exceeds the markets surplus capacity above peak demand then the test is failed. Where this occurs, FERC will impose on the company and its affiliates a requirement to offer uncommitted capacity under a cost based rate structure. The only exemption will be for companies operating under the authority of an ISO or RTO with a FERC approved market monitoring and mitigation plan. Under this approach, it would be unlikely that a vertically integrated energy company serving franchised retail load would be able to pass the test and maintain market based rates, unless and until the company was a member of an approved ISO or RTO. In December 2001, FERC essentially suspended the applicability of this test, holding that no company would be required to undertake any mitigation until after FERC had held a technical conference on the subject. This technical conference has not been scheduled. Second, FERC continues to exhibit a commitment to increased market monitoring with an intent to ensure that high price volatility, such as was seen in California, does not occur again. As part of this commitment, FERC announced early in 2002 the formation of the Office of Market Oversight and Investigation, which will report directly to the FERC Chairman. This new office will assess, among other things, market performance. It is unclear how Generations business may be impacted by these initiatives. Currently, while a significant portion of Generations capacity is located within the PJM RTO area, other significant generation is located within the Mid American Interconnected Network (MAIN) reliability region, and is not yet in an approved ISO or RTO. When ComEd joins PJM, most of this capacity will be in an approved RTO. Generation also owns capacity located within the service territory of Illinois Power Company (IP). IP has entered into an agreement to sell its transmission system, and the proposed buyer has notified FERC that it intends to place that system under the control of Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc., which is also an approved RTO. In the meantime, however, it is possible that under its evolving market power tests, FERC might determine that Generation has market power in this area. If FERC were to suspend Generations market based rate authority, it would most likely be necessary to file, and obtain FERC acceptance of, cost based rate schedules or schedules tied to a public index. In addition, the loss of market based rate authority would subject Generation to the accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on public utilities with cost based rate schedules. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in gigawatthours (GWhs) for 2002 and estimated for 2003: Source of Electric Supply 2002 2003 (Est.) Nuclear units(1) 115,854 119,733 Purchases non trading portfolio(2) 78,710 61,271 Fossil and hydro units 12,976 11,326 Total Supply 207,540 192,330 (1)Excluding AmerGen. 25 (2)Including PPAs with AmerGen. The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its commitment to supply the requirements of ComEd, PECO and certain requirements of Enterprises competitive retail energy sales business, Exelon Energy Inc. (Exelon Energy), and for sales to other utilities. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2004. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2005. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2004. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2005. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services for its nuclear units. Generation obtains approximately 25% of its uranium enrichment services from European suppliers. There is an ongoing trade action by USEC, Inc. (USEC) alleging dumping in the United States against European enrichment services suppliers. In January 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission determined that USEC was "materially injured or threatened with material injury" by low enriched uranium exported by European suppliers. The U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) has assessed countervailing and anti dumping duties against the European suppliers. Both USEC and the European suppliers have appealed these decisions. Generation is uncertain at this time as to the outcome of the pending appeals, however as a result of these actions Generation may incur higher costs for uranium enrichment services necessary for the production of nuclear fuel. Fuel Management. Coal is obtained for coal fired plants primarily through annual contracts with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. Substantially all of the natural gas requirements for Generations Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 units, currently under construction, will be supplied through a twenty year natural gas contract that became effective on December 1, 2002 with Distrigas of Massachusetts, LLC (Distrigas). The Distrigas facilities consist of a LNG import terminal located adjacent to the Mystic station. Generation is anticipating an additional pipeline gas supply arrangement to supplement LNG supplies to be in service by early 2005. Natural gas requirements for operating stations and other stations under construction will be procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed such that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months inventory levels are managed to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with multi commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. Power Team Power Team uses Generations energy generation portfolio, transmission rights and power marketing expertise to manage delivery of energy to wholesale customers, including Energy Delivery, under long term and short term contracts, participates in the wholesale energy market to hedge open energy (power and fossil fuels) positions, manages commodity and counterparty credit risks through the use of documented risk and credit policies, and uses its energy market expertise to engage in trading activities for speculative purposes on a limited basis. Generation has agreements with ComEd and PECO to supply their respective load requirements for customers through 2004 and 2010, respectively. During 2005 and 2006, ComEds PPA is a partial 26 requirements agreement under which ComEd will purchase all of its required energy and capacity from Generation, up to the available capacity of the nuclear generating plants formerly owned by ComEd and transferred to Generation. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd and PECO Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation has also contracted with Exelon Energy, a division of Enterprises, to meet certain supply commitments pursuant to its competitive retail generation sales agreements. Under the agreements with ComEd and PECO, Generation will supply all of ComEd and PECOs needs to supply customers who do not select an alternative electric generation supplier through the end of the respective transition periods. Therefore, the supply requirements under the agreements will vary depending on how much of the load has selected an alternative supplier. Power Team has experience in energy markets, generation dispatch and the requirements for the physical delivery of power. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including Energy Delivery. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale energy market. Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity, and long, intermediate and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. These agreements are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers. Excess power is sold in the wholesale market. Generation has also purchased transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs. The intent and business objective for the use of its capital assets and contracts is to provide Generation with physical power supply to enable it to deliver energy to meet customer needs. Power Team also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is 4 years. Generations hedge ratio in 2003 for its energy marketing portfolio is approximately 90%. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to Energy Deliverys retail load. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand and volatility. During peak periods, the amount hedged declines to assure Generations commitment to meet Energy Deliverys demand, for which the peak demand is during the summer. For the portion of generation supply that is unhedged, fluctuations in market price of energy will cause volatility in Generations results of operations. Through Power Team, Generation began to use financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001 but this activity accounts for a small portion of Power Teams efforts. In 2002, proprietary trading activities resulted in an $18 million after tax reduction in Generations earnings. Power Team intends to continue proprietary trading activities but in a more limited capacity given the current lack of liquidity of power markets and reduced number of creditworthy counterparties. The trading portfolio is subject to stringent risk management limits and policies including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, Generation has a financial risk management policy and a corporate risk group to monitor the financial risks of its power marketing activities. Proprietary trading of derivatives, together with the effects of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 27 (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 133), may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. The recent failures of energy companies and their related energy trading practices over the last year have diminished the size and depth of the wholesale energy market. Generation cannot predict how this will affect its trading operations in the future. At December 31, 2002, Generation had long term commitments, relating to the purchase and sale of energy, capacity and transmission rights from and to unaffiliated utilities and others, including the Midwest Generation and AmerGen contracts, as expressed in the following tables: Power Only Purchases from Net Capacity Purchases(1) Power Only Sales AmerGen Non Affiliates Transmission Rights Purchases(2) 2003 $ 589 $ 2,442 $ 280 $ 1,722 $ 86 2004 639 1,088 292 768 93 2005 356 272 472 283 84 2006 328 92 472 239 3 2007 408 22 179 227 Thereafter 3,742 1 2,638 829 Total $ 6,062 $ 3,917 $ 4,333 $ 4,068 $ 266 (1)On October 2, 2002, Generation notified Midwest Generation of its exercise of termination options under the existing Collins and Peaking PPA. Generation exercised its termination options on 1,727 MWs in 2003 and 2004. In 2003, Generation will take 1,778 MWs of option capacity under the Collins and Peaking Unit Agreements as well as 1,265 MWs of option capacity under the Coal Generation PPA. Net capacity purchases in 2004 include 3,474 MWs of optional capacity from Midwest Generation. Net Capacity Purchases also include capacity sales to TXU under the PPA entered into in connection with the purchase of two generating plants in April 2002, which states that TXU will purchase the plant output from May through September from 2002 through 2006. During the periods covered by the PPA, TXU will make fixed capacity payments and will provide fuel to Generation in return for exclusive rights to the energy and capacity of the generation plants. The combined capacity of the two plants is 2,334 MWs. (2)Transmission Rights Purchases include estimated commitments in 2004 and 2005 for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. Additionally, Generation has the following commitments: In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA with ComEd under which Generation has agreed to supply all of ComEds load requirements through 2004. Prices for this energy vary depending upon the time of day and month of delivery. During 2005 and 2006, ComEds PPA is a partial requirements agreement under which ComEd will purchase all of its required energy and capacity from Generation, up to the available capacity of the nuclear generating plants formerly owned by ComEd and transferred to Generation. Under the terms of the PPA, Generation is responsible for obtaining any required transmission service, subject to ComEds obligation to obtain network service over the ComEd system. The PPA also specifies that prior to 2005, ComEd and Generation will jointly determine and agree on a market based price for energy delivered under the PPA for 2005 and 2006. In the event that the parties cannot agree to market based prices for 2005 and 2006 prior to July 1, 2004, ComEd has the option of terminating the PPA effective December 31, 2004. ComEd will obtain any additional supply required from market sources in 2005 and 2006, and subsequent to 2006, will obtain all of its supply from market sources, which could include Generation. 28 In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA with PECO under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with substantially all of its electric supply through 2010. Also, under the restructuring, PECO assigned its rights and obligations under various PPAs and fuel supply agreements to Generation. Generation supplies power to PECO from the transferred generation assets, assigned PPAs and other market sources. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. As part of Generations recent acquisition of the assets of Sithe New England, Generation is in the process of completing the construction of three high efficiency generating facilities with projected capacity of 2,421 MWs of energy. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2003 are as follows: (in millions) Production Plant $ 566 Nuclear Fuel 397 Total $ 963 The majority of Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2003 are for nuclear fuel and additions to or upgrades of existing facilities. Sithe Generation is a 49.9% owner of Sithe and accounts for the investment as an unconsolidated equity investment. Sithe presently owns 19 generating stations in North America, with approximately 1,321 MWs of net generating capacity and 230 MWs under construction. In connection with its initial investment in Sithe, Generation is subject to a Put and Call Agreement (PCA) that gives Generation the right to purchase (Call) the remaining 50.1% of Sithe, and gives the other Sithe shareholders the right to sell (Put) their interest to Generation. At the time of the purchase of Sithe in 2000, the other remaining interests in Sithe were held by Vivendi (34.2%), Marubeni (14.9%) and Sithe management (1%). If the Put option is exercised, Generation has the obligation to complete the purchase. The PCA originally provided that the Put and Call options became exercisable as of December 18, 2002 and expired in December 2005. However, upon Apollo Energy, LLCs (Apollo) purchase of Vivendis and Sithe managements ownership shares, Apollo agreed to delay the effective date of its Put right until June 1, 2003 and, if certain conditions are met, until September 1, 2003. There are also certain events that could trigger Apollos Put right becoming effective prior to June 1, 2003 including Exelon being downgraded below investment grade by Standard and Poors Rating Group or Moodys Investors Service, Inc., a stock purchase agreement between Generation and Apollo being executed and subsequently terminated, or the occurrence of any event of default, other than a change of control, under certain Generation or Apollo credit agreements. Depending on the triggering event, Apollos put price of approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest, needs to be funded within 18 or 30 days of the Put being exercised. There have been no changes to the Put and Call terms with respect to Marubenis remaining interest. The delay in the effective date of Apollos Put right allows Generation to explore a further restructuring of its investment in Sithe. Generation is continuing discussions with Apollo and Marubeni regarding restructuring alternatives that are designed in part to resolve its ownership limitations of Sithes qualifying facilities. In addition, Generation is exploring the sale of its interest in Sithe. In the event of a sale, Generation may recognize a one time loss. Generation would hope to implement any 29 additional restructuring or a sale of its Sithe investment in 2003. If Generation is unsuccessful in restructuring the Sithe transaction or selling its interest and, as a result, purchases the remaining 50.1% of Sithe under the PCA, Generation will proceed to implement measures to address the ownership of the qualified facilities as well as divest non strategic assets, for which the outcome is uncertain. If Generation exercises its option to acquire the remaining outstanding common stock in Sithe, or if all the other stockholders exercise their Put Rights, the purchase price for Apollos 35.2% interest will be approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest. The additional 14.9% interest will be valued at fair market value subject to a floor of $141 million and a ceiling of $290 million. If Generation increases its ownership in Sithe to 50.1% or more, Sithe may become a consolidated subsidiary and Generations financial results may include Sithes financial results from the date of purchase. At December 31, 2002, Sithe had total assets of $2.6 billion and total debt of $1.3 billion. This $1.3 billion includes $624 million of subsidiary debt incurred primarily to finance the construction of six generating facilities, $461 million of subordinated debt, $103 million of line of credit borrowings, $43 million of the current portion of long term debt and capital leases, $30 million of capital leases, and excludes $453 million of non recourse project debt associated with Sithes equity investments. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Sithe had revenues of $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2002, Generation had a $478 million equity investment in Sithe. In December 2001, Sithe entered into an 18 month corporate credit facility for $500 million expiring in June 2003. As of November 1, 2002, the credit facility was reduced to $350 million. As of December 31, 2002, Sithe had drawn approximately $103 million under this facility and extended approximately $139 million in letters of credit. Through internally generated cash flows and the corporate credit facility, Sithe has sufficient liquidity to cover all 2003 operating and capital commitments. AmerGen AmerGen was formed in 1997 by PECO and British Energy, to acquire and operate nuclear generation facilities in North America. Currently, AmerGen owns three single unit nuclear generation facilities, which are described in the table below. AmerGens nuclear facilities are subject to the provisions and maximum assessment and recovery limits of the Price Anderson Act and NEIL similar to Generations, as previously discussed within ITEM 1. Business Generation, however the American Nuclear Insurers Master Worker Program is not applicable to AmerGen as AmerGen purchased its nuclear reactors after 1998. The capacity factors for the AmerGen plants for 2002 and 2001 were 93.4% and 88.5%, respectively. AmerGen operates these nuclear facilities; however, Generation provides AmerGen with many services, including management services, in connection with the operation and support of these facilities under a Services Agreement dated March 1, 1999. In addition, Generations chief nuclear 30 officer holds the same position at AmerGen. As part of the 2001 corporate restructuring, PECO transferred its 50% interest in AmerGen to Generation. Station Year Acquired Location License Expiration Date(1) Net Generation Capacity (MW) Clinton Nuclear Power Station 1999 Clinton, IL 2026 1,015 Unit 1 of Three Mile Island Nuclear Station 1999 Londonderry Twp., PA 2014 837 Oyster Creek Generating Station 2000 Forked River, NJ 2009 629 Total 2,481 (1)AmerGen is reviewing the potential for license renewals for the Oyster Creek Generating Station (Oyster Creek) and Unit 1 of Three Mile Island Nuclear Station (TMI). As part of each acquisition of its nuclear facilities, AmerGen entered into a power sales agreement with the seller. The agreement with Illinois Power for Clinton Nuclear Power Station (Clinton) is for 75% of the output for a term expiring at the end of 2004. Generation purchases the residual energy from Clinton through December 31, 2003. The agreement with GPU, Inc. for TMI and Oyster Creek are for all of the output. The agreement for the output of Oyster Creek expires on March 31, 2003. The original agreement for the output of TMI expired in 2001. Generation has agreed to purchase from AmerGen all the energy from TMI after December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2014. AmerGen maintains a decommissioning trust fund for each of its plants in accordance with NRC regulations and believes that amounts in these trust funds, together with investment earnings thereon, and additional contributions for Clinton from Illinois Power will be sufficient to meet its decommissioning obligations. Under its LLC Agreement, AmerGen is managed by or at the direction of a management committee, which consists of six voting representatives, three of whom are appointed by British Energy and three by Generation. In addition, Generation appoints the chairman of the management committee. Action by the management committee generally requires the affirmative vote of a majority of members. Generation may transfer its interest in AmerGen, as may British Energy, subject to a right of first refusal of the other party and to the right of the other party to require a third party buying the interest to also purchase the other partys interest and to the right of the non selling member to veto the proposed transfer. In September 2002, both Generation and British Energy announced that they were considering the possibility of selling their interests in AmerGen. On March 7, 2003, Exelon and British Energy announced that they agreed to reject all offers for the purchase of AmerGen. With the termination of the sale process, Generation announced that it no longer intends to sell its interest in AmerGen. In 2002, Generation entered into an agreement to loan AmerGen up to $100 million at an interest rate of 1 month London Interbank Offering Rate plus 2.25%. As of December 31, 2002, the outstanding principal balance of the loan was $35 million. The loan is due July 1, 2003. Although Exelon does not anticipate that AmerGen will make any acquisitions in 2003, Exelon has committed to provide AmerGen with capital contributions equivalent to 50% of the purchase price of any acquisitions AmerGen makes in 2003. On December 11, 2002, AmerGen received a notice of violation from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection for a substantial fish kill, which occurred on September 23, 2002 at Oyster Creek, resulting from the shutdown of dilution pumps during maintenance. The New Jersey 31 Department of Environmental Protection has assessed civil penalties and claims for natural damage to the state totaling $373,000 relating to the incident. In addition to the notice of violation, the Attorney General of the State of New Jersey has commenced a criminal investigation into the circumstances surrounding the fish kill. AmerGen is cooperating fully with the Attorney General in its investigation and is working to settle the civil penalty and damage claims in conjunction with the investigation. Enterprises Enterprises consists primarily of the infrastructure services business of InfraSource, Inc. (InfraSource), the energy services business of Exelon Services, Inc., the competitive retail energy sales business of Exelon Energy Company, the district cooling business of Exelon Thermal Holdings, Inc., communications joint ventures and other investments weighted towards the communications, energy services and retail services industries. The results of InfraSources infrastructure services business and Exelon Services energy services business are dependent on demand for construction and maintenance services. That demand has been driven in the past by the restructuring of the electric utility industry and growth of the communications, cable and internet industries. Slowdown in that restructuring and the current condition of the communications, cable and internet industries means that results will be driven by efforts to manage costs and achieve synergies. InfraSource, formerly Exelon Infrastructure Services, Inc., provides infrastructure services, including infrastructure construction, operation management and maintenance services to owners of electric, gas, cable and communications systems, including industrial and commercial customers, utilities and municipalities, throughout the United States. Since it was established in 1997, InfraSource has acquired thirteen infrastructure service companies. In 2002, InfraSource had revenues of approximately $900 million and employed approximately 4,900 at the end of 2002. Exelon Services is engaged in the design, installation and servicing of heating, ventilation and air conditioning facilities for commercial and industrial customers throughout the Midwest. Exelon Services also provides energy related services, including performance contracting and energy management systems. Exelon Energy provides retail electric and gas services as an unregulated retail energy supplier in Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania and other areas in the Midwest and Northeast United States. Its retail energy sales business is dependent upon continued deregulation of retail electric and gas markets and its ability to obtain supplies of electricity and gas at competitive prices in the wholesale market. The low margin nature of the business makes it important to achieve concentrations of customers with higher volumes so as to manage costs. Exelon Thermal provides district cooling and related services to offices and other buildings in the central business district of Chicago and in several other cities in North America. District cooling involves the production of chilled water at one or more central locations and its circulation to customers buildings, primarily for air conditioning. Exelon Communications is the unit of Enterprises through which Exelon manages its communications investments. Exelon Communications principal investment is PECOAdelphia Communications (PECOAdelphia). PECOAdelphia is a competitive local exchange carrier, providing local and long distance, point to point voice and data communications, internet access and enhanced data services for businesses and institutions in eastern Pennsylvania. PECOAdelphia is a 50% owned joint venture with Adelphia Business Solutions. PECOAdelphia utilizes a large scale, fiber optic cable based network that currently extends over 1,100 miles and is connected to major long distance carriers and local businesses. 32 On April 1, 2002, Enterprises sold its 49% interest in AT&T Wireless PCS of Philadelphia, LLC to a subsidiary of AT&T Wireless Services for $285 million in cash. Exelon Capital Partners was created in 1999 as a vehicle for direct venture capital investing in the areas of unregulated energy sales, energy services, utility infrastructure services, e commerce and communications. At December 31, 2002, Exelon Capital Partners had direct investments in thirteen companies and investments in four venture capital funds. Enterprises is focused on operating its businesses and investments with the goal of maximizing its earnings and cash flow. Enterprises is not currently contemplating any acquisitions. Enterprises expects to divest itself of businesses that are not consistent with Exelons strategic direction. This does not necessarily mean that an immediate exit will be arranged, but rather businesses may be retained for a period of time if that course of action will strengthen their value. Employees As of December 31, 2002, Exelon and its subsidiaries had approximately 25,200 employees, in the following companies: ComEd 7,000 PECO 2,700 Generation 7,200 Enterprises 7,500 BSC 800 Total 25,200 Approximately 6,200 employees, including 4,400 employees of ComEd, 1,700 employees of Generation and 60 employees of BSC are covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA) with Local 15 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW Local 15). The CBA for Generation expires in September 30, 2005. The CBA for ComEd and BSC expires in September 30, 2006. The CBAs provide for a voluntary severance plan. In addition to IBEW Local 15, approximately 200 Generation employees are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America. Approximately 5,000 Enterprises employees are represented by unions, including approximately 2,500 employees who are represented by various local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. The remaining union employees are members of a number of different local unions, including laborers, welders, operators, plumbers and machinists. PECO employees are not currently covered by a CBA. Over the past several years, a number of unions have filed petitions with the National Labor Relations Board to hold certification elections with regard to different segments of employees within PECO. In all cases, PECO employees have rejected union representation. On August 15, 2002, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers filed a petition to conduct a unionization vote of certain of PECOs employees. It is expected that this election will occur in the second quarter of 2003. Exelon expects that such petitions, related to segments of employees at PECO, Generation and Enterprises, will continue to be filed in the future. Environmental Regulation General Specific operations of Exelon, primarily those of ComEd, PECO, and Generation, are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by various states and local jurisdictions where Exelon operates its facilities. The Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the State of Illinois, together with the Illinois Environmental 33 Protection Agency, which enforces regulations of the IPCB and issues permits in connection with environmental control. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PDEP) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has jurisdiction in Texas and Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction in Massachusetts. State regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated. Those permits must be renewed periodically. Generation either has NPDES permits for all of its generating stations or has pending applications for such permits. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and interstate agencies, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These potentially responsible parties (PRPs) can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. ComEd, PECO and Generation and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. By notice issued in November 1986, the EPA notified over 800 entities, including ComEd and PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to releases of radioactive and or toxic substances from the Maxey Flats disposal site, a LLRW disposal site near Moorehead, Kentucky, where ComEd and PECO wastes were deposited. A settlement was reached among the Federal and private PRPs, including ComEd and PECO, the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the EPA concerning their respective roles and responsibilities in conducting remedial activities at the site. Under the settlement, the private PRPs agreed to perform the initial remedial work at the site and the Commonwealth of Kentucky agreed to assume responsibility for long range maintenance and final remediation of the site. On April 18, 1996, a consent decree, which included the terms of the settlement, was entered by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. The PRPs have entered into a 34 contract for the design and implementation of the remedial plan. The work has commenced and is expected to be completed in 2003. Exelon estimates that it will be responsible for approximately $800,000 of the remediation costs to be incurred by the PRPs in implementing the remedial activities specified in the consent decree. As a result of the 2001 corporate restructuring, ComEds and PECOs liability and obligations arising from the Maxey Flats site have been transferred to Generation. By notice issued in December 1987, the EPA notified several entities, including PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to wastes resulting from the treatment and disposal of transformers and miscellaneous electrical equipment at a site located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (the Metal Bank of America site). Several of the PRPs, including PECO, formed a steering committee to investigate the nature and extent of possible involvement in this matter. On May 29, 1991, a Consent Order was issued by the EPA pursuant to which the members of the steering committee agreed to perform the remedial investigation and feasibility study as described in the work plan issued with the Consent Order. PECOs share of the cost of study was approximately 30%. On July 19, 1995, the EPA issued a proposed plan for remediation of the site, which involves removal of contaminated soil, sediment and groundwater and which the EPA estimated would cost approximately $17 million to implement. On June 26, 1998, the EPA issued an order to the non de minimis PRP group members, and others, including the owner, to implement the remedial design (RD) and remedial action (RA) (Order). The PRP group has conducted the RD and submitted to the EPA the revised final design (Final Design) on January 15, 2003. During the design process the PRP group proposed certain revisions to the EPAs preferred remedy, in response to which the EPA has issued two Explanations of Significant Differences (ESD) that are expected to reduce the costs of the preferred remedy. The Final Design estimates the cost to implement the RA to range from $12 million to $15 million. At this time, Exelon cannot predict with reasonable certainty the actual cost of the final remedy, who will implement the remedy, or the cost, if any, to the PRPs or any of its members, including Exelon. The ultimate cost to the PRPs and to Exelon will also depend upon the share of costs that is allocated to the owners and operators of the Metal Bank of America site in litigation that currently is pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. MGP Sites MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to 1950. ComEd generally did not operate MGPs as a corporate entity but did, however, acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities. Approximately half of these sites were transferred to Nicor Gas as part of a general conveyance in 1954. ComEd also acquired former MGP sites as vacant real estate on which ComEd facilities have been constructed. To date, ComEd has identified 43 former MGP sites for which it may be liable for remediation. Similarly, PECO has identified 28 sites where former MGP activities may have resulted in site contamination. With respect to these sites, ComEd and PECO are presently engaged in performing various levels of activities, including initial evaluation to determine the existence and nature of the contamination, detailed evaluation to determine the extent of the contamination and the necessity and possible methods of remediation, and implementation of remediation. ComEd and PECO are working closely with regulatory authorities in the various locations to develop and implement appropriate plans and schedules for evaluation, risk ranking, detailed study and remediation activities on an individual site and overall program basis. The status of each of the sites in the program varies and is reviewed periodically with the regulatory authorities. At December 31, 2002, ComEd and PECO had accrued $97 million and $28 million, respectively, for investigation and remediation of these MGP sites that currently can be reasonably estimated. ComEds reserve was increased by $17 million in the third quarter 2002 as the result of a delay in implementing the ongoing remediation for a MGP site in Oak Park, Illinois. ComEd and PECO believe that they could incur additional liabilities with respect to MGP sites, which cannot be reasonably estimated at 35 this time. ComEd and PECO have sued a number of insurance carriers seeking indemnity/coverage for remediation costs associated with these former MGP sites. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the EPA and the various State Environmental Agencies in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Illinois and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution. The Amendments include a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from electric power plants. Flue gas desulfurization systems (scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units other than the Keystone Station. Keystone is subject to, and in compliance with, the Phase II SO2 and NOx limits of the Amendments, which became effective January 1, 2000. Generation and the other Keystone co owners are purchasing SO2 emission allowances to comply with the Phase II limits. Generation has completed implementation of measures, including the installation of NOx emissions controls and the imposition of certain operational constraints, to comply with the Reasonably Available Control Technology limitations and the NOx Budget Program in the Ozone Transport Region (affecting facilities in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts). The EPA has issued two regulations to limit NOx emissions from power plants in the eastern United States to address the "ozone transport" issue. The first regulation was issued on September 24, 1998. The original NOxregulation covered power plants in the 22 eastern states and had an effective date of May 1, 2003. As a result of litigation at the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, the original NOx regulation was revised to cover 19 eastern states (rather than the original 22) and the effective date was delayed by approximately one year to May 31, 2004. In most other respects, the court substantively upheld the original NOx regulation. Massachusetts, Illinois and Pennsylvania power plants are covered by the original NOxregulation. The second EPA regulation, referred to as the "Section 126 Petition Regulation," was issued on May 25, 1999. This regulation was issued by the EPA in response to downwind state (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont) complaints under Section 126 of the Clean Air Act that upwind state NOx emissions were negatively impacting downwind states ability to attain the Federal ozone standard. The Section 126 Petition Regulation requires substantively the same NOx reduction requirement for the power generation sector as the original NOx regulation. However, the Section 126 Petition Regulation covers a more limited number of states (Delaware, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia). It does not cover power plants in Illinois. The compliance date of the Section 126 Petition Regulation, originally set for May 1, 2003, was tolled by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals pending resolution of several issues. Despite this delay, the northeast states covered by the Section 126 Petition Regulation are still expected to comply with the original May 1, 2003 compliance date. On September 23, 2000, Pennsylvania issued final state NOxreduction regulations for power plants that satisfy both the original NOx regulation and the Section 126 Petition Regulation. Regulations are also in place in Massachusetts and Illinois. The Pennsylvania and Massachusetts regulations are effective on May 1, 2003. Exelon has evaluated options for compliance and is installing controls on the two coal units at Eddystone Generating Station (Selective Non Catalytic Reduction) and the two coal units (Selective Catalytic Reduction) at Keystone Generating Station. In Massachusetts, an Air Quality Improvement Plan is in place for the Mystic Generating Station for compliance with the Massachusettss multi pollutant regulations. The plan includes restrictions to residual fuel oil consumption on units 4, 5 and 6; management of low sulfur fuels on unit 7, and dry low NOx combustors, Selective Catalytic Reduction and CO Oxidation Catalyst on the new gas fired units 8 and 9 that will achieve commercial operation in 2003. The Exelon NOx 36 compliance program will be supplemented with the purchase of additional NOx allowances on an as needed basis. The eight new peaking units commissioned during 2002 at the SE Chicago Generating Station are equipped with NOx controls that meet requirements for new sources. The Exelon generating stations in the Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) area are required to comply with the DFW NOx State Implementation Plan (SIP) that commences on May 1, 2003, with full implementation on May 1, 2005. Additionally, beginning May 1, 2003 these plants must comply with the Emission Banking and Trading of Allowances (EBTA) program established by the enactment of Senate Bill 7 during the 76th Texas Legislative session for the purpose of achieving substantial reductions in NOx from grandfathered Electric Generating Facilities (EGFs). To comply with both the DFW NOx SIP and EBTA program, Exelon has embarked on a plan to install NOx control equipment on several of the units at the Handley and Mountain Creek generating stations Many other provisions of the Amendments affect activities of Exelons business, primarily Generation. The Amendments establish stringent control measures for geographical regions which have been determined by the EPA to not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards; establish limits on the purchase and operation of motor vehicles and require increased use of alternative fuels; establish stringent controls on emissions of toxic air pollutants and provide for possible future designation of some utility emissions as toxic; establish new permit and monitoring requirements for sources of air emissions; and provide for significantly increased enforcement power, and civil and criminal penalties. Several other legislative and regulatory proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including utility units, are under active consideration. Exelon is unable at this time to ascertain which proposals may take effect, what requirements they may contain, or how they may affect Exelons business. At this time, Exelon can provide no assurance that these proposals if adopted will not have a significant effect on Exelons operations and costs. Costs At December 31, 2002, ComEd, PECO and Generation accrued $101 million, $40 million and $15 million, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation. These costs include approximately $97 million at ComEd and $28 million at PECO for former MGP sites as described above. ComEd and PECO cannot currently predict whether they will incur other significant liabilities for additional investigation and remediation costs at sites presently identified or additional sites which may be identified by ComEd and PECO, environmental agencies or others or whether all such costs will be recoverable through rates or from third parties. The budgets for expenditures in 2003 at ComEd, PECO and Generation for compliance with environmental requirements total approximately $47 million, $5 million and $2 million, respectively. In addition, ComEd, PECO and Generation may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities ComEd Transitional Funding Trust (ComEd Funding Trust), a Delaware business trust, was formed on October 28, 1998, pursuant to a trust agreement among First Union Trust Company, National Association, now Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Delaware trustee, and two individual trustees appointed by ComEd. ComEd Funding Trust was created for the sole purpose of issuing transitional funding notes to securitize intangible transition property granted to ComEd Funding LLC, a ComEd affiliate, by an ICC order issued July 21, 1998. On December 16, 1998, ComEd Funding Trust issued $3.4 billion of transitional funding notes, the proceeds of which were used to purchase the intangible transition property held by ComEd Funding LLC. ComEd Funding LLC transferred the proceeds to ComEd where they were used, among other things, to repurchase outstanding debt and equity securities of ComEd. The transitional funding notes are solely obligations of ComEd Funding Trust and are secured by the intangible transition property, which represents the right to receive instrument funding charges collected from ComEds customers. The instrument funding charges represent a nonbypassable, usage based, per kWh charge on designated consumers of electricity. 37  ComEd Financing I, a Delaware business trust, was formed by ComEd on July 21, 1995. ComEd Financing I was created solely for the purpose of issuing $200 million of trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities issued on September 26, 1995, carry an annual distribution rate of 8.48% and are mandatorily redeemable on September 30, 2035. The sole assets of ComEd Financing I are $206.2 million principal amount of 8.48% subordinated deferrable interest notes due September 30, 2035, issued by ComEd. On February 14, 2003, ComEd called $200 million of its trust preferred securities at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest to the March 20, 2003 redemption date. The preferred securities were refinanced with trust preferred securities (see ComEd Financing III below). Similarly, ComEd Financing II, a Delaware business trust, was formed by ComEd on November 20, 1996. ComEd Financing II was created solely for the purpose of issuing $150 million of trust capital securities. The trust capital securities were issued on January 24, 1997, carry an annual distribution rate of 8.50% and are mandatorily redeemable on January 15, 2027. The sole assets of ComEd Financing II are $154.6 million principal amount of 8.50% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due January 15, 2027, issued by ComEd. ComEd Financing III, a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by ComEd on September 5, 2002. ComEd Financing III was created for the sole purpose of issuing and selling preferred and common securities. On March 17, 2003, ComEd Financing III issued $200 million of trust preferred securities, carrying an annual distribution rate of 6.35%, which are mandatorily redeemable on March 15, 2033. The sole assets of ComEd Financing III are $206.2 million principal amount of 6.35% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due March 15, 2033, issued by ComEd. The preferred securities were used to refinance the preferred securities of ComEd Financing I. PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), a Delaware business trust wholly owned by PECO, was formed on June 23, 1998 pursuant to a trust agreement between PECO, as grantor, First Union Trust Company, National Association, now Wachovia Bank, National Association, as issuer trustee, and two beneficiary trustees appointed by PECO. PETT was created for the sole purpose of issuing transition bonds to securitize a portion of PECOs authorized stranded cost recovery. On March 25, 1999, PETT issued $4 billion of its Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. On May 2, 2000, PETT issued $1 billion of its Series 2000 A Transition Bonds and on March 1, 2001, PETT issued $805 million of its Series 2001 A Transition Bonds to refinance a portion of the Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. The Transition Bonds are solely obligations of PETT secured by intangible transition property, representing the right to collect transition charges sufficient to pay the principal and interest on the Transition Bonds, sold by PECO to PETT. PECO Energy Capital Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of PECO, is the sole general partner of PECO Energy Capital, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (Partnership). The Partnership was created solely for the purpose of issuing preferred securities, representing limited partnership interests and lending the proceeds thereof to PECO and entering into similar financing arrangements. The loans to PECO are evidenced by PECOs subordinated debentures (Subordinated Debentures), which are the only assets of the Partnership. The only revenues of the Partnership are interest on the Subordinated Debentures. All of the operating expenses of the Partnership are paid by PECO Energy Capital Corp. As of December 31, 2002, the Partnership held $128 million aggregate principal amount of the Subordinated Debentures. PECO Energy Capital Trust II (Trust II) was created in June 1997 as a Delaware business trust solely for the purpose of issuing trust receipts (Trust II Receipts) each representing an 8.00% Cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Security, Series C (Series C Preferred Securities) of the Partnership. The Partnership is the sponsor of Trust II. As of December 31, 2002, Trust II had outstanding 2,000,000 Trust II Receipts. At December 31, 2002, the assets of Trust II consisted solely of 2,000,000 Series C Preferred Securities with an aggregate stated liquidation preference of $50 million. 38 Distributions were made on the Trust II Receipts during 2002 in the aggregate amount of $4 million. Expenses of Trust II for 2002 were approximately $14,000, all of which were paid by PECO Energy Capital Corp. The Trust II Receipts are issued in book entry only form. PECO Energy Capital Trust III (Trust III) was created in April 1998 as a Delaware business trust solely for the purpose of issuing trust receipts (Trust III Receipts) each representing an 7.38% Cumulative Preferred Security, Series D (Series D Preferred Securities) of the Partnership. The Partnership is the sponsor of Trust III. As of December 31, 2002, Trust III had outstanding 78,105 Trust III Receipts. At December 31, 2002, the assets of Trust III consisted solely of 78,105 Series D Preferred Securities with an aggregate stated liquidation preference of $78 million. Distributions were made on Trust III Receipts during 2002 in the aggregate amount of $6 million. Expenses of Trust III for 2001 were approximately $14,000, all of which were paid by PECO Energy Capital Corp. The Trust III Receipts are issued in book entry only form. Executive Officers of the Registrants at December 31, 2002 Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 57 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Kingsley Jr., Oliver D. 60 Senior Executive Vice President McLean, Ian P. 53 Executive Vice President Mehrberg, Randall E. 47 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Moler, Elizabeth A. 53 Executive Vice President Shapard, Robert S. 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Strobel, Pamela B. 50 Executive Vice President Clark, Frank M. 57 Senior Vice President Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 48 Senior Vice President Gilmore Jr., George H. 53 Senior Vice President Lawrence, Kenneth G. 55 Senior Vice President Mitchell, J. Barry 54 Senior Vice President and Treasurer Skolds, John L. 52 Senior Vice President Snodgrass, S. Gary 51 Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Woods, David W. 45 Senior Vice President Hilzinger, Matthew F. 39 Vice President and Corporate Controller Lewis, Charles P. 39 Vice President, Strategy and Development, Generation ComEd Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 57 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon and Director Strobel, Pamela B. 50 Chair Shapard, Robert S. 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon* Clark, Frank M. 57 President and Director Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 48 Director Lawrence, Kenneth G. 55 Director Dudkin, Gregory N. 45 Executive Vice President, Operations Berdelle, Robert E. 46 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer* *As a result of a reorganization of Exelons finance function, Mr. Shapard became the principal financial officer of ComEd as of January 22, 2003. 39 PECO Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 57 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon and Director Strobel, Pamela B. 50 Chair Shapard, Robert S. 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon* Lawrence, Kenneth G. 55 President and Director Frankowski, Frank F. 52 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer* Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 48 Director OBrien, Denis P. 43 Executive Vice President *As a result of a reorganization of Exelons finance function, Mr. Shapard became the principal financial officer of PECO as of January 22, 2003. Each of the above was elected as an officer effective October 20, 2000, the closing date of the Merger, except for Randall E. Mehrberg, who was elected effective December 1, 2000, Robert E. Berdelle, who was elected effective October 11, 2001, Frank F. Frankowski, who was elected effective October 22, 2001, George H. Gilmore Jr., who was elected effective December 3, 2001, Matthew F. Hilzinger, who was elected effective April 1, 2002, and Robert S. Shapard, who was elected effective October 21, 2002. Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective companys board of directors until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Rowe was President and Co Chief Executive of Exelon, Co Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and President, Co Chief Executive Officer of PECO; Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and Unicom; and President and Chief Executive Officer of New England Electric System. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Kingsley was Executive Vice President of Exelon; Executive Vice President of ComEd and Unicom, President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Nuclear Generation Group of ComEd, and Chief Nuclear Officer of the Tennessee Valley Authority. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Senior Vice President of Exelon; President of the Power Team division of PECO; and Group Vice President of Engelhard Corporation. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mehrberg was Senior Vice President of Exelon; an equity partner with the law firm of Jenner & Block; and General Counsel and Lakefront Director of the Chicago Park District. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Moler was Senior Vice President, Government Affairs and Policy of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Director of Unicom and ComEd; Partner at the law firm of Vinson & Elkins, LLP; Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy; and Chair of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Shapard was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Covanta Energy Corporation; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ultramar Diamond Shamrock; Chief Executive Officer of TSU Australia, Ltd., and Vice President, Finance and Treasurer at TXU. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Strobel was Vice Chairman of ComEd; Vice Chairman of PECO; Executive Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd and Unicom; Senior 40 Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Clark was Senior Vice President, Distribution Customer and Marketing Services and External Affairs of ComEd; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd; Governmental Affairs Vice President; and Governmental Affairs Manager. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Gillis was Chief Financial Officer of Exelon, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President and Treasurer of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the University of Chicago Hospitals and Health System; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of American National Bank and Trust Company. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Gilmore was Group President for National Service Industries, Inc.; President and Chief Operating Officer of Calmat Company; and President of Moore Document Solutions and Moore Business Systems. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Lawrence was Senior Vice President, Distribution of PECO; Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of PECO; and Vice President, Gas Operations division of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mitchell was Vice President and Treasurer of Exelon; and Vice President, Treasury and Evaluation, and Treasurer of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Skolds was Chief Operating Officer of Exelon Nuclear; and President and Chief Operating Officer of South Carolina Electric and Gas. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Snodgrass was Chief Human Resources Officer of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President of USG Corporation. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Woods was Senior Vice President, Corporate and Public Affairs of PECO; and the Chief of Staff for the Pennsylvania Senate Majority Leader. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Credit Acceptance Corporation; Vice President, Controller of Kmart Corporation; Divisional Vice President, Strategic Planning and Financial Reporting of Kmart Corporation; Assistant Treasurer of Kmart Corporation; and Divisional Vice President, Logistics Finance and Planning of Kmart Corporation. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Lewis was Vice President Finance, PECO; Director Nuclear Planning and Development of PECO; and Director of Corporate Development PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Dudkin was Vice President Customer and Marketing Services of PECO; and Vice President Power Delivery of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. OBrien was Vice President of Operations of PECO; Director of Transmission and Substations of PECO; and Director of Bucksmont Region of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position Mr. Frankowski was Controller of PECO Energy Company; Manager, Accounting and Control of PECO Energy; and Director Taxes of PECO Energy Company. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Berdelle was Vice President and Comptroller of Unicom and ComEd; Comptroller of Unicom and ComEd; and Manager of Financial Reporting of Unicom and ComEd. 41  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Energy Delivery The electric substations and a portion of the transmission rights of way of ComEd and PECO are owned in fee. A significant portion of the electric transmission and distribution facilities is located over or under highways, streets, other public places or property owned by others, for which permits, grants, easements or licenses, deemed satisfactory by ComEd and PECO, respectively, but without examination of underlying land titles, have been obtained. Transmission and Distribution Energy Deliverys higher voltage electric transmission and distribution lines owned and in service are as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles ComEd 765,000 345,000 138,000 90 2,539 2,431 PECO 500,000 220,000 132,000 66,000 297 496 226 168 ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,100 circuit miles of overhead lines and 30,500 circuit miles of underground lines. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,890 circuit miles of overhead lines and 8,215 circuit miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2002: Pipeline Miles Transmission 31 Distribution 6,275 Service piping 5,186 Total 11,492 PECO has a LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200,000 million cubic feet (mmcf) and a send out capacity of 157,000 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25,000 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. Mortgages The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first mortgage bonds are issued. 42 Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2002: Station Location No. of Units Percent Owned(1) Primary Fuel Type Dispatch Type Net Generation Capacity(MW)(2) Nuclear(3) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,413 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,393 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,728 LaSalle County Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,325 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,316 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,130 (4) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,311 (4) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 931 (4) 14,547 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (4) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Base load 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 250 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Base load 581 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley Fort Worth, TX 5 Gas Peaking/Intermediate 1,441 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (4) Mountain Creek Dallas, TX 5 Gas Peaking/Intermediate 893 Mystic Everett, MA 4 Oil/Gas Intermediate 995 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Gas Intermediate 380 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Unit Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (4) 6,616 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 380 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 37 LaPorte LaPorte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 160 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Mystic CT Everett, MA 1 Oil Peaking 12 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Gas Peaking 20 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (4) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 South East Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 350 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 West Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil Peaking 165 1,581 (continued on next page) 43 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (4) Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (4) 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydro Base load 512 Muddy Run Lancaster Co., PA 8 Hydro Intermediate 1,072 1,584 Under Construction Mystic 8 Everett, MA 1 Gas 807 Mystic 9 Everett, MA 1 Gas 807 Fore River Weymouth, MA 1 Oil/Gas 807 2,421 Total 130 26,762 (1)100%, unless otherwise indicated. (2)For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (3)All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron and Salem, which are pressurized water reactors. (4)Generations portion. The net generating capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For information regarding nuclear insurance, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition and results of operations.  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon Securities Litigation. Between May 8 and June 14, 2002, several class action lawsuits were filed in the Federal District Court in Chicago asserting nearly identical securities law claims on behalf of purchasers of Exelon securities between April 24, 2001 and September 27, 2001 (Class Period). The complaints allege that Exelon violated Federal securities laws by issuing a series of materially false and misleading statements relating to its 2001 earnings expectations during the Class Period. The court consolidated the pending cases into one lawsuit and has appointed two lead plaintiffs as well as lead counsel. On October 1, 2002, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. In addition to the original claims, this complaint contains allegations of new facts and contains several new theories of liability. Exelon believes the lawsuit is without merit and is vigorously contesting this matter. 44  ComEd Chicago Franchise. In March 1999, ComEd reached a settlement agreement with Chicago to end the arbitration proceeding between ComEd and Chicago regarding their January 1, 1992 franchise agreement. As part of the settlement agreement, ComEd and Chicago agreed to a revised combination of ongoing work under the franchise agreement and new initiatives that will result in defined transmission and distribution expenditures by ComEd to improve electric services in Chicago. The settlement agreement provides that ComEd would be subject to liquidated damages if the projects are not completed by various dates, unless it was prevented from doing so by events beyond its reasonable control. In addition, ComEd and Chicago established an Energy Reliability and Capacity Account, into which ComEd paid $25 million during each of the years 1999 through 2002, to help ensure an adequate and reliable electric supply for Chicago. No further payments by ComEd into the Energy Reliability and Capacity Account are required. On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years and be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. Under the terms of the Midwest Agreement, ComEd will receive from Midwest Generation $36 million over ten years, $22 million of which was received on February 20, 2003, to relieve Midwest Generations obligation under the fossil sale agreement. Midwest Generation will also assume from Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement which Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC (CET), which is effective through June 2012. ComEd will reimburse Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement and will pay approximately $2 million for amounts owed to CET by Chicago at the time the agreement is executed. The net effect of the settlement to ComEd will be amortized over the remaining life of the franchise agreement with Chicago. FERC Municipal Request for Refund. Three of ComEds wholesale municipal customers filed a complaint and request for refund with FERC, alleging that ComEd failed to properly adjust its rates, as provided for under the terms of the electric service contracts with the municipal customers and to track certain refunds made to ComEds retail customers in the years 1992 through 1994. In the third quarter of 1998, FERC granted the complaint and directed that refunds be made, with interest. ComEd filed a request for rehearing. On April 30, 2001, FERC issued an order granting rehearing in which it determined that its 1998 order had been erroneous and that no refunds were due from ComEd to the municipal customers. In August 2001, each of the three wholesale municipal customers appealed the April 30, 2001 FERC order to the Federal circuit court, which consolidated the appeals for the purposes of briefing and decision. The Federal circuit court has stayed the proceedings pending settlement negotiations among the parties. Retail Rate Law. In 1996, several developers of non utility generating facilities filed litigation against various Illinois officials claiming that the enforcement against those facilities of an amendment to Illinois law removing the entitlement of those facilities to state subsidized payments for electricity sold to ComEd after March 15, 1996 violated their rights under the Federal and state constitutions. The developers also filed suit against ComEd for a declaratory judgment that their rights under their contracts with ComEd were not affected by the amendment. On November 25, 2002, the court granted developers motions for summary judgment. The judge also entered a permanent injunction enjoining ComEd from refusing to pay the retail rate on the grounds of the amendment, and Illinois from denying ComEd a tax credit on account of such purchases. ComEd and Illinois have each appealed the ruling. ComEd believes that it did not breach the contracts in question and that the damages claimed far exceed any loss that any project incurred by reason of its ineligibility for the subsidized rate. ComEd intends to prosecute its appeal and defend each case vigorously. 45 Service Interruptions. In August 1999, three class action lawsuits were filed against ComEd, and subsequently consolidated, in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois seeking damages for personal injuries, property damage and economic losses related to a series of service interruptions that occurred in the summer of 1999. The combined effect of these interruptions resulted in over 168,000 customers losing service for more than four hours. Conditional class certification was approved by the court for the sole purpose of exploring settlement. ComEd filed a motion to dismiss the complaints. On April 24, 2001, the court dismissed four of the five counts of the consolidated complaint without prejudice and the sole remaining count was dismissed in part. On June 1, 2001, the plaintiffs filed a second amended consolidated complaint and ComEd has filed an answer. On December 5, 2002, a settlement was reached, pending court approval, whereby ComEd will pay up to $8 million, which includes $4 million paid to date. The settlement, when approved, will release ComEd from all claims arising from the 1999 power outages. A portion of any settlement or verdict may be covered by insurance. PECO None. Generation Godley Park District Litigation. On April 18, 2001, the Godley Park District filed suit in Will County Circuit Court against ComEd and Generation alleging that oil spills at Braidwood Station have contaminated the Park Districts water supply. The complaint sought actual damages, punitive damages of $100 million and statutory penalties. The court dismissed all counts seeking punitive damages and statutory penalties, and the plaintiff has filed an amended complaint before the court. The amended complaint added counts under the Illinois Public Utility Act (PUA), which provides for statutory penalties and allows recovery of attorneys fees. On November 8, 2002, the Godley Park District voluntarily dismissed its lawsuit. Cotter Corporation Litigation. During 1989 and 1991, actions were brought in Federal and state courts in Colorado against ComEd and its subsidiary, Cotter Corporation (Cotter), seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief based on allegations that Cotter permitted radioactive and other hazardous material to be released from its mill into areas owned or occupied by the plaintiffs, resulting in property damage and potential adverse health effects. In 1994, a Federal jury returned nominal dollar verdicts against Cotter on eight plaintiffs claims in the 1989 cases, which verdicts were upheld on appeal. The remaining claims in the 1989 actions were settled or dismissed. In 1998, a jury verdict was rendered against Cotter in favor of 14 of the plaintiffs in the 1991 cases, totaling approximately $6 million in compensatory and punitive damages, interest and medical monitoring. On appeal, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the jury verdict, and remanded the case for new trial. These plaintiffs cases were consolidated with the remaining 26 plaintiffs cases, which had not been tried. The consolidated trial was completed on June 28, 2001. The jury returned a verdict against Cotter and awarded $16 million in various damages. On November 20, 2001, the District Court entered an amended final judgment that included an award of both pre judgment and post judgment interests, costs, and medical monitoring expenses that total $43 million. In November 2000, another trial involving a separate sub group of 13 plaintiffs, seeking $19 million in damages plus interest was completed in Federal District Court in Denver. The jury awarded nominal damages of $42,500 to 11 of 13 plaintiffs, but awarded no damages for any personal injury or health claims, other than requiring Cotter to perform periodic medical monitoring at minimal cost. Cotter appealed these judgments to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. Cotter is vigorously contesting the awards. On February 18, 2000, ComEd sold Cotter to an unaffiliated third party. As part of the sale, ComEd agreed to indemnify Cotter for any liability incurred by Cotter as a result of these actions, as well as any liability arising in connection with the West Lake Landfill discussed in the next paragraph. 46 In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, the responsibility to indemnify Cotter for any liability related to these matters was transferred by ComEd to Generation. The EPA has advised Cotter that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. Cotter is alleged to have disposed of approximately 39,000 tons of soils mixed with 8,700 tons of leached barium sulfate at the site. Cotter, along with three other companies identified by the EPA as PRPs, has submitted, a draft feasibility study addressing options for remediation of the site. The PRPs are also engaged in discussions with the State of Missouri and the EPA. The estimated costs of remediation for the site range from $0 to $87 million. Once a remedy is selected, it is expected that the PRPs will agree on an allocation of responsibility for the costs. Until an agreement is reached, Generation cannot predict its share of the costs. Raytheon Arbitration. In March 2001, two subsidiaries of Sithe New England Holdings acquired in November 2002, brought an action in the New York Supreme Court against Raytheon Corporation (Raytheon) relating to its failure to honor its guaranty with respect to the performance of the Mystic and Fore River projects, as a result of the abandonment of the projects by the turnkey contractor. In a related proceeding, in May 2002, Raytheon submitted claims to the International Chamber of Commerce Court of Arbitration seeking equitable relief and damages for alleged owner caused performance delays in connection with the Fore River Power Plant Engineering, Procurement & Construction Agreement (EPC Agreement). The EPC Agreement, executed by a Raytheon subsidiary and guaranteed by Raytheon, governs the design, engineering, construction, start up, testing and delivery of an 800 MW combined cycle power plant in Weymouth, Massachusetts. Raytheon recently amended its claim and now seeks 141 days of schedule relief (which would reduce Raytheons liquidated damage payment for late delivery by approximately $25 million) and additional damages of $16 million. Raytheon also has asserted a claim for loss of efficiency and productivity as a result of an alleged constructive acceleration, for which a claim has not yet been quantified. Generation believes the Raytheon assertions are without merit and is vigorously contesting these claims. Hearings by the International Chamber of Commerce Court of Arbitration with respect to liability were held in January and February 2003. A decision on liability is expected to be issued in May 2003 and, if necessary, additional hearings will be held on damages in May and June of 2003. Real Estate Tax Appeals. Generation is involved in tax appeals regarding a number of its nuclear facilities, Limerick Generating Station (Montgomery County, PA), Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station (York County, PA) and Quad Cities Station (Rock Island County, IL). The tax appeal relating to one of its fossil facilities, Eddystone (Delaware County, PA), was resolved during 2002. Generation is also involved in the tax appeal for Three Mile Island (Dauphin County, PA) through AmerGen. Generation does not believe the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. General Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are involved in various other litigation matters. The ultimate outcome of such matters, as well as the matters discussed above, while uncertain, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on their respective financial condition or results of operations.  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, ComEd and PECO None. 47  PART II  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Exelon The information required by this Item with respect to market information relating to Exelons common stock is incorporated herein by reference to "Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters" in Exhibit 99 2 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. ComEd As of March 1, 2003, there were outstanding 127,016,425 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At March 1, 2003, in addition to Exelon, there were approximately 280 holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. PECO As of March 1, 2003, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Dividends Under PUHCA, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. Similar restrictions also apply to ComEd under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. However, the SEC has authorized ComEd, and to Exelon, to the extent Exelon receives dividends from ComEd paid from ComEd additional paid in capital, to pay up to $500 million in dividends out of additional paid in capital, although Exelon may not pay dividends out of paid in capital after December 31, 2002 if its common equity is less than 30% of its total capitalization. At December 31, 2002, Exelon had retained earnings of $2.0 billion, which includes ComEds retained earnings of $577 million, PECOs retained earnings of $401 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $924 million. To date, Generation has not declared or paid dividends. See ComEd and PECO sections in this item for a further discussion of ComEd and PECO dividend restrictions. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends paid during 2002 and 2001: 2002 2001 4th Quarter 3rd Quarter 2nd Quarter 1st Quarter 4th Quarter 3rd Quarter 2nd Quarter 1st Quarter (per share) Exelon $ 0.44 $ 0.44 $ 0.44 $ 0.44 $ 0.43 $ 0.42 $ 0.42 $ 0.55 (1) (1)Exelon did not pay any cash dividends in 2000. The first quarter dividend in 2001 was a pro rata dividend. Unicom and PECO each paid their shareholders pro rata, per diem dividends from their last regular dividend dates through October 19, 2000. The first quarter of 2001 covered the 119 day period from the date of the Merger, through the February 15, 2001 record date. 48 The following table sets forth ComEd and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2002 2001 4th Quarter 3rd Quarter 2nd Quarter 1st Quarter 4th Quarter 3rd Quarter 2nd Quarter 1st Quarter (in millions) ComEd $ 117 $ 118 $ 117 $ 118 $ 230 $ 105 $ 85 $ 63 PECO $ 85 $ 85 $ 85 $ 85 $ 173 $ 69 $ 55 $ 45 On January 28, 2003, the Board of Directors of Exelon declared a quarterly dividend of $0.46 per share of Exelons common stock. This increase of $0.08 per share annually will result in an annual dividend rate of $1.84 per share. Exelon intends to grow its dividend over time at a rate of approximately 4% to 5%, commensurate with long term earnings growth. The payment of future dividends is subject to approval and declaration by the Board of Directors each quarter. ComEd may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities which were issued to ComEd Financing I, ComEd Financing II and ComEd Financing III (the Financing Trusts); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of the Financing Trusts; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities). PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2002, such capital was $2.4 billion and amounted to about 17 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $137 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) PECO exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the Subordinated Debentures which were issued to the Partnership; (2) PECO defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series C or Series D Preferred Securities of the Partnership; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the Subordinated Debentures are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities).  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to "Selected Financial Data" in Exhibit 99 1 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. 49 ComEd The selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from the audited financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein. The information for the year ended 2000 is presented for the periods before and after the Merger. For additional information, see ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd, Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For the Years Ended December 31, For the Years Ended December 31, Oct. 20 Dec. 31 2000 Jan. 1 Oct. 19 2000 2002 2001 1999 1998 (in millions) Statement of Income Data: I Operating Revenues $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ 1,310 I $ 5,702 $ 6,793 $ 7,150 Operating Income 1,766 1,594 338 I 1,048 1,549 1,387 Net Income 790 607 133 I 599 623 594 Net Income on Common Stock 790 607 133 I 596 599 537 December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Balance Sheet Data: I Current Assets $ 1,049 $ 1,025 $ 2,172 I $ 4,045 $ 4,974 Property, Plant and Equipment, net 7,744 7,351 7,657 I 11,993 13,300 Goodwill, net 4,916 4,902 4,766 I Other Deferred Debits and Other Assets 2,121 2,349 5,603 I 6,538 6,583 I Total Assets $ 15,830 $ 15,627 $ 20,198 I $ 22,576 $ 24,857 I Current Liabilities $ 2,023 $ 1,797 $ 1,723 I $ 3,427 $ 3,309 Long Term Debt 5,268 5,850 6,882 I 6,962 7,677 Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities 2,451 2,568 5,082 I 6,456 7,770 Mandatorily Redeemable Preference Stock I 69 171 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable I Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding I the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities 330 329 328 I 350 350 Shareholders Equity 5,758 5,083 6,183 I 5,312 5,580 I Total Liabilities and Shareholders Equity $ 15,830 $ 15,627 $ 20,198 I $ 22,576 $ 24,857 I 50 PECO The selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from the audited financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein. For the Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Statement of Income Data: Operating Revenues $ 4,333 $ 3,965 $ 5,950 $ 5,478 $ 5,325 Operating Income 1,093 999 1,222 1,373 1,268 Income before Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle $ 486 $ 425 $ 483 $ 582 $ 513 Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle (net of income taxes) 24 Net Income $ 486 $ 425 $ 507 $ 582 $ 513 Net Income on Common Stock $ 478 $ 415 $ 497 $ 570 $ 500 December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Balance Sheet Data: Current Assets $ 927 $ 813 $ 1,779 $ 1,221 $ 582 Property, Plant and Equipment, net 4,179 4,057 5,158 5,004 4,804 Deferred Debits and Other Assets 5,614 5,868 7,839 6,862 6,662 Total Assets $ 10,720 $ 10,738 $ 14,776 $ 13,087 $ 12,048 Current Liabilities $ 1,576 $ 1,335 $ 2,974 $ 1,286 $ 1,735 Long Term Debt 4,951 5,438 6,002 5,969 2,920 Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities 3,304 3,358 3,860 3,738 3,756 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities 128 128 128 128 349 Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Stock 19 37 56 93 Shareholders Equity 761 460 1,775 1,910 3,195 Total Liabilities and Shareholders Equity $ 10,720 $ 10,738 $ 14,776 $ 13,087 $ 12,048 51 Generation The selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from the audited financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein. For the Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Statement of Income Data: Operating Revenues $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 3,274 $ 2,425 Operating Income 509 872 441 300 Income before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles $ 387 $ 512 $ 260 $ 204 Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles (net of income taxes) 13 12 Net Income (Loss) $ 400 $ 524 $ 260 $ 204 December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Balance Sheet Data: Current Assets $ 1,805 $ 1,435 $ 1,793 $ 395 Property, Plant and Equipment, net 4,800 2,003 1,727 990 Deferred Debits and Other Assets 4,402 4,700 4,742 907 Total Assets $ 11,007 $ 8,138 $ 8,262 $ 2,292 Current Liabilities $ 2,663 $ 1,097 $ 2,176 $ 404 Long Term Debt 2,132 1,021 205 209 Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities 3,259 3,212 3,271 729 Minority Interest 54 Members Equity 2,899 2,808 2,610 950 Total Liabilities and Members Equity $ 11,007 $ 8,138 $ 8,262 $ 2,292 The consolidated financial statements of Generation as of December 31, 2000 and for the year then ended present the financial position, results of operations and net cash flows of the generation related business of Exelon prior to its corporate restructuring on January 1, 2001. Generation operated as a separate business subsequent to electric industry restructuring in Pennsylvania effective January 1, 1999. Prior to that date, Exelon (and its predecessor, PECO) operated as a fully integrated electric and gas utility, and revenues and expenses were not separately identified in the accounting records 52   ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. ComEd, PECO and Generation Each Critical Accounting Estimate and New Accounting Pronouncement section presented below indicates the registrant or registrants to which each estimate or accounting standard is applicable. "We" or "Our" as utilized in the Critical Accounting Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncements sections is defined as the business units identified in each subheading. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these estimates and assumptions with its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on management decisions. Management believes that the following areas require significant management judgment in making estimates and assumptions to describe matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (ComEd, PECO and Generation) We use derivative financial instruments primarily to manage commodity price and interest rate risks. In connection with our Risk Management Policy (RMP), we: use financial derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to our variable rate debt instruments, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances prior to their actual issuance and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt which we are planning to retire early, enter into derivatives to manage the physical and financial risks associated with our energy supply and load obligations, and enter into energy related derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Our derivative activities are subject to the management, direction, and control of our Risk Management Committee (RMC). The RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives, and establishes procedures for control, valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of our activities in derivative markets and the performance of our derivative contracts. We make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the changes in the fair value we expect in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. We account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133. To the extent that changes in SFAS No. 133 modify current guidance, including the standards for determining whether contracts can be accounted for as normal purchases and normal sales, the accounting treatment for derivatives may change. 53 We are required under SFAS No. 133 to record derivative instruments at fair value. Depending on the designation of the derivative, the fair value is either recorded in the income statement or as a component of other comprehensive income in shareholders equity (OCI). We use quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, we use internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific energy market the energy is being purchased in using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. We use the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. To determine the fair value of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements we use external broker quotes or calculate the fair value internally using the Bloomberg swap valuation tool. This tool uses the most recent market inputs and a widely accepted valuation methodology. During 2002, Generation recognized unrealized and realized net gains of $6 million and $20 million, respectively, relating to mark to market adjustments of certain non trading purchased power and sale contracts pursuant to SFAS No. 133 and unrealized and realized net losses aggregating $9 million and $20 million, respectively, relating to mark to market adjustments of derivative instruments entered into for trading purposes. Hedge Accounting. As part of our energy marketing business, we enter into contracts to purchase or sell electricity, gas and ancillary products such as transmission rights, congestion credits and emission allowances, using contracts that are considered derivatives under SFAS No. 133. Certain of these derivatives qualify as hedge transactions. A derivative instrument can be designated as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge) or a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge). To qualify for hedge accounting, the fair value changes in the derivative must be expected to offset 80% 120% of the changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge and is highly effective, along with the gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge and is highly effective, are recorded in OCI, until earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows being hedged. Exelon continually assesses these cash flow hedges to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transaction is probable. At the point in time that the contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and the fair value of the derivative is recorded through earnings. Energy Contracts. We enter into contracts designated as cash flow hedges in which we manage the variability of our cash flows related to the purchase or sale of energy. At the initiation of the contract the contract is identified as a cash flow hedge, which requires us to determine whether the contract is in accordance with our RMP, that the forecasted future transaction is probable, and that the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of an energy contract designated as a hedge. An example of a contract that would qualify for hedge accounting would be a forward over the counter sales contract used to hedge an expected sale of generation exposed to market prices. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. We enter into interest rate swap contracts related to variable rate debt in order to convert the variable interest payments into fixed interest payments to manage the variability of cash flows. Additionally, we enter into forward starting interest rate swaps in order to lock 54 in an interest rate at a future date in anticipation of a future debt issuance to manage the variability of changes in interest rates between the date of the decision to issue and the actual date of issue. We also enter into interest rate swap contracts related to fixed rate debt in order to maintain our targeted percentage of variable rate debt. The fair value of derivatives generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the balance sheet date, thereby taking into account the current unrealized gains or losses of open contracts. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exemption. As part of our energy marketing business, we enter into contracts to purchase or sell electricity, gas and ancillary products such as transmission rights, congestion credits and emission allowances using contracts that are considered derivatives under SFAS No. 133. The majority of these contracts, however, qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales SFAS No. 133 exemption from mark to market accounting treatment as they are for the purchase and sale of energy to meet the requirements of our customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery in quantities we expect to use or sell over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. These contracts are reflected in the financial statements at the lower of cost or market, on a portfolio basis, using the accrual method of accounting. We did not have any loss contracts as of December 31, 2002. Under these contracts we recognize any gains or losses when the underlying physical transaction affects earnings. At the initiation of the contract, we make a determination as to whether or not the contract meets the criteria as a normal purchase or normal sale. An example of an energy contract that would qualify for the normal sale exemption would include a forward sale contract under which we expect to supply the full requirements of the counterparty. An example of a contract that would qualify for the normal purchase exemption would be an energy capacity contract that we enter into to satisfy the needs of our customer base, either retail or wholesale. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to specific contracts is based on a determination that at certain times excess generation is available for a forward sale and, similarly, a determination that at certain times generation supply will be insufficient to serve our load. The determination of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery is based on internal models that forecast customer demand and electricity supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. Significant changes in these assumptions could result in contracts being considered differently under SFAS No. 133 and the potential requirement of mark to market accounting. Proprietary Trading. As part of our energy trading operation, we enter into contracts to buy and sell energy for trading purposes. These contracts are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value and changes in the fair value are recognized through earnings. All proprietary trading activity is recorded net in revenue. Trading activities are a very small portion of Generations overall power marketing activities. The trading portfolio is subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, including volumetric and depression limits to manage exposure to market risk, as prescribed by the RMC. Non Trading Contracts. To manage our commodity risk exposure and meet our load requirements, we have also entered into non trading contracts that do not meet the definition in SFAS No. 133 of a normal purchase or normal sale or meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. These non trading contracts are marked to market when the underlying item affects earnings, with the gains and losses recorded in Purchased Power and Fuel expense. Non trading contracts are subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, as prescribed by the RMC. 55 Although we use derivative instruments to assist in managing commodity price and interest rate risks, we can still experience earnings volatility from period to period because of the risks associated with marketing and trading electricity and other energy related products. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities (ComEd and PECO) Energy Deliverys operating subsidiaries, ComEd and PECO, are regulated by their respective state regulatory commissions as well as by FERC. The regulators in Illinois and Pennsylvania, as well as FERC, use cost based rate structures to determine the rates we charge customers. In establishing cost based rates, the ICC and the PUC may consider the capital requirements and working capital needs to operate the distribution and transmission business, determine the operating cost levels that can be passed on to customers and provide for a reasonable return to our shareholders. In their determination of rates, the ICC and PUC may include allowable costs in periods other than the periods in which an unregulated entity would record the costs in the income statement. These costs are accounted for as either a regulatory asset or liability. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. Regulatory assets and liabilities are accounted for under SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" (SFAS No. 71). Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to our utility operations that meet the following criteria: the operations are subject to third party regulation of rates; the rates are cost based; and the assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates is appropriate and reasonable. If a separable portion of our business no longer meets these criteria, we are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of our business. Both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Current rates include the recovery of our existing regulatory assets. The most significant regulatory assets we have recorded are: Competitive Transition Charges: These charges represent PECOs stranded costs that the PUC determined would be allowed to be recoverable through regulated rates. These costs are related to the deregulation of the generation portion of the electric utility business in Pennsylvania. The unamortized balance of the CTC of $4.6 billion and $4.9 billion as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, was recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The CTC includes Intangible Transition Property sold to PECO Energy Transition Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of PECO, in connection with the securitization of PECOs stranded cost recovery. CTC is being amortized through December 31, 2010 with a rate of return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. See ITEM 1. Business General Energy Delivery Retail Electric Services PECO for additional discussion of CTC amortization. Recoverable Transition Costs: These charges, related to the recovery of ComEds former generating plants, are amortized based on the expected return on equity of ComEd in any given year. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $175 million and $277 million, respectively, in recoverable transition costs recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. ComEd expects to fully recover and amortize these charges by the end of 2006, but may increase or decrease its annual amortization to maintain its earnings within the earnings cap provisions established by Illinois legislation. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of recoverable transition cost amortization. Recoverable Deferred Income Taxes: These costs represent the difference between the method in which the regulator allows for the recovery of income taxes and how income taxes would be 56 recorded by unregulated entities. These recoverable deferred income taxes, recorded in compliance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," include the deferred tax effects associated principally with liberalized depreciation for PECO and excess deferred taxes and ITC amortization for ComEd. These amounts are accounted for in accordance with the ratemaking policies of the ICC and PUC, as well as the revenue impacts thereon, and assume continued recovery of these costs in future rates. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $(68) million and $26 million, respectively, in recoverable deferred income taxes recorded in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PECO had $729 million and $675 million, respectively, in recoverable deferred income taxes recorded in PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheets. Nuclear Decommissioning Costs for Retired Plants: These costs represent the amount of future nuclear decommissioning costs related to the retired former ComEd plants which are being recovered through rates. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $248 million and $310 million, respectively, in nuclear decommissioning costs for retired plants recorded in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. These costs will be recovered in rates and amortized on a straight line basis to earnings by the end of 2006. Reacquired Debt Costs and Interest Rate Swap Settlements: These costs relate to amounts paid to reacquire debt early and to settle interest rate hedges to mitigate interest rate risks and capitalize on lower interest rate debt. These amounts are deferred and amortized over the rate recovery period, which is over the life of the new debt issued to finance the debt redemption. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $84 million and $54 million, respectively, in reacquired debt costs and interest rate swap settlements recorded in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PECO had $53 million and $58 million, respectively, in reacquired debt costs recorded in PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheets. For each regulatory jurisdiction where we conduct business, we continually assess whether the regulatory assets continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets and liabilities would be recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could impact our ability to pay dividends under PUHCA. Because our current rates include the recovery of existing regulatory assets and liabilities, and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow us to earn a reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the states where we do business, but is subject to change in the future. Nuclear Decommissioning (Generation) We currently have direct ownership interests in 16 active nuclear generating units and four retired nuclear generating units. In addition, we own a 50% equity interest in AmerGen, which operates three active nuclear generating units. In connection with the operation of our nuclear units, the NRC requires us to begin decommissioning these facilities after their NRC operating license lives end, generally 40 years from the date of initial operation, and complete the decommissioning within 60 years after cessation of operation. Generation has, however, requested or is in the process of requesting the extension of these license lives for several nuclear generating stations. The decommissioning of a nuclear generating station involves the decontamination of structures and components, the removal of high level and 57 low level radioactive materials from the site for disposal at a licensed facility and for certain stations, the restoration of the station sites to a natural state. We estimate that, once started, decommissioning of a site can generally be completed in 10 years. Based on the projected extended license lives of our nuclear plants, we will begin decommissioning our plants from 2014 through 2056, with expenditures primarily occurring when our operating plants are decommissioned, during the period from 2029 through 2056. PECO and ComEd currently recover certain decommissioning costs in regulated rates. The amounts recovered are deposited in trust accounts and invested for funding of future decommissioning costs for active and inactive generating units. As part of the 2001 corporate restructuring, the generation related assets and liabilities of ComEd and PECO were transferred to Generation. The accounting for our receipt of decommissioning collections and recognition of decommissioning liabilities varies between the plants that were previously owned by ComEd or by PECO prior to restructuring. We account for the current periods cost of decommissioning related to generating plants previously owned by PECO by following regulatory accounting principles and recording a charge to depreciation expense and a corresponding liability in accumulated depreciation concurrent with decommissioning collections from rate payers. Our regulatory accounting principles for the generating stations previously owned by ComEd were discontinued when those stations were transferred to Generation. Those stations included both operating and retired units. For operating units, the difference between the current cost decommissioning estimate and the decommissioning liability recorded in accumulated depreciation is amortized to depreciation expense on a straight line basis over the remaining lives. For retired units, the current cost decommissioning estimate is recorded in deferred credits and other liabilities and accreted to depreciation expense. Under regulatory accounting principles, gains and losses on marketable securities held in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds are reported in accumulated depreciation. After regulatory accounting principles are discontinued, unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities held in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Realized gains and losses on decommissioning trust funds are reflected in other income and deductions in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Due to the sharp declines in the equity market since the third quarter of 2000, the value of our nuclear decommissioning trust funds has also decreased. In 2002, contributions to these trust funds of $112 million were offset by net realized and unrealized losses of $224 million, resulting in a 4% decrease in the trust funds balance at December 31, 2002 compared to December 31, 2001. We believe that the amounts that ComEd and PECO are recovering from customers through electric rates, along with the earnings on the trust funds, will be sufficient to fund our decommissioning obligations. Cost estimates for decommissioning our nuclear facilities have been prepared by an independent engineering firm and reflect currently existing regulatory requirements and available technology. Our current estimate of our nuclear facilities decommissioning cost is $7.4 billion in current year (2003) dollars. Calculating this estimate involves significant assumptions about the expected increases in decommissioning costs relative to general inflation rates, changes in the regulatory environment or regulatory requirements, and the timing of decommissioning. Significant changes in these assumptions could materially affect the liabilities and future costs related to decommissioning recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The estimated service life of the nuclear station is also a significant assumption because decommissioning and depreciation costs are generally recognized over the life of the generating station. In 2001, we extended nuclear station service lives, over which the decommissioning costs are recognized, by 20 years. Effective April 1, 2001, we extended the estimated service lives by 20 years for three nuclear stations. Effective July 1, 2001, we extended the estimated service lives by 20 years for the remainder of Generations operating nuclear stations. These changes were based on engineering 58 and economic feasibility studies we performed considering, among other things, future capital and maintenance expenditures at these plants. The service life extension is subject to NRC approval of an extension of existing NRC operating licenses. As a result of the change, net income for 2002 and 2001 increased approximately $132 million ($79 million, net of income taxes) and approximately $90 million ($60 million, net income taxes), respectively. Although we consider the service life extension authorization to be probable, if the extensions were denied, our results of operations would be adversely impacted by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. SFAS No. 143. The accounting for our nuclear decommissioning obligation will be affected by the adoption of SFAS No. 143, "Asset Retirement Obligations" (SFAS No. 143) effective January 1, 2003. SFAS No. 143 provides accounting requirements for retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. Retirement obligations associated with long lived assets included within the scope of SFAS No. 143 are those for which there is a legal obligation under existing or enacted law, statute, written or oral contract or by legal construction under the doctrine of promissory estoppel. The effect of this cumulative adjustment on nuclear decommissioning will be to change the decommissioning liability to reflect the fair value of the decommissioning obligation at the balance sheet date. Additionally, SFAS No. 143 will require the recording of an asset related to the decommissioning obligation, which will be amortized over the remaining lives of the plants. The net difference, between the asset recognized and the adjustment to the decommissioning liability, recorded upon adoption of SFAS No. 143 will be charged to earnings and recognized as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of expected regulatory recovery and net of taxes. The decommissioning liability to be recorded will represent the fair value of the obligation for the future decommissioning of the plants and, as a result, accretion expense will be accrued on this liability until the obligation is satisfied. As noted above, we currently record the obligation for decommissioning ratably over the lives of the plants. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 143 on our financial condition. Based on the current information and the credit adjusted risk free rate, we estimate the increase in 2003 non cash expense to impact earnings before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for the adoption of SFAS No. 143 by approximately $30 million, after income taxes. Additionally, the adoption of SFAS No. 143 is expected to result in non cash, one time cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle gain of approximately $1.9 billion, after income taxes. The $1.9 billion gain and the $30 million charge includes our share of the impact of the SFAS No. 143 adoption related to AmerGens nuclear plants. These impacts are based on our current interpretation of SFAS No. 143 and are subject to continued refinement based on the finalization of assumptions and interpretation at the time of adopting the standard, including the determination of the credit adjusted risk free rate. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation will continue to be adjusted on an ongoing basis as these model input factors change. In accordance with SFAS No. 143, we used a probabilistic cash flow model with multiple scenarios in order to determine the fair value of the decommissioning obligation. SFAS No. 143 also stipulates that fair value represent the amount a third party would receive for assuming all of an entitys obligation. Key assumptions used in our determination of fair value as defined in SFAS No. 143 include: decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party these decommissioning studies represent a marketplace assessment of costs and the timing of retirement activities validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates 59 annual cost escalation studies to determine escalation factors based on inflation indices used in decommissioning cost studies for the following major categories: labor, equipment and materials, energy, other (taxes, insurance, fees, etc.), and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. use of probabilistic cash flow models to measure the fair value including: the probability of various cost levels, and the probability of various timing scenarios incorporating the factors of current license lives and life extension and the timing of DOE acceptance for disposal of our spent nuclear fuel. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA), the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is responsible for the selection and development of repositories for, and the disposal of, spent nuclear fuel and high level radioactive waste (SNF). As required by the NWPA, ComEd and PECO, each signed a contract with the DOE (Standard Contract) to provide for disposal of SNF from their respective nuclear generating stations. The NWPA and the Standard Contract required the DOE to begin taking possession of SNF generated by nuclear generating units by no later than January 31, 1998. The DOE, however, failed to meet that deadline and its performance will be significantly delayed. The DOE currently estimates it will open a SNF facility in 2010. This extended delay requires us to retain possession of the SNF, thus increasing decommissioning costs including the operation and maintenance of facilities to store SNF until the DOE removes it from our sites. The NRC regulatory guidance suggests that decommissioning cost studies be updated every five years. Most of our studies were prepared in 1995 and 1996 and are in the process of being updated. Although no significant changes in decommissioning technologies have occurred since the studies were performed, and annual cost escalation studies are performed to determine the escalation factor applied to the base year cost study, changes in these cost studies could have a material impact on the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation. The final determination of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle is also in part a function of the credit adjusted risk free rate at the time of the adoption of the standard. Additionally, although over the life of the plant, the charges to earnings for the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability will be equal to the amounts that would have been recognized as decommissioning expense under the current accounting, the timing of those charges will change and in the near term period subsequent to adoption, the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability are expected to result in an increase in expense. Asset Impairments Long Lived Assets and Investments. (ComEd, PECO and Generation). SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" (SFAS No. 144), establishes accounting and reporting standards for both the impairment and disposal of long lived assets. SFAS No. 144 continues the FASB requirements that: an impairment loss be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows, and the impairment loss be measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. 60 Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, "The Equity Method of Accounting for Investment in Common Stock," requires that an impairment loss be recognized for an investment if the investment declines in fair value below its amortized cost basis, and this decline is judged to be other than temporary. We continually monitor our investments and businesses and the markets in which these businesses operate in order to determine events that may trigger an impairment. We test our businesses and investments for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Such triggering events may include a current expectation that there is a likelihood of 50% or greater that a long lived asset will be sold, competitors technological advancement, accelerated distributions of public holdings at a loss, lack of achievability of financial results versus plan, limited access to capital, or the loss of a major customer, among others. The analysis of impairment for long lived and intangible assets is subject to an undiscounted cash flow analysis that requires significant assumptions. In 2002, ComEd, PECO and Generation did not identify factors through this review process that indicated potential impairment of property, plant and equipment or other long lived assets. Goodwill (ComEd). Under SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS No. 142), goodwill is also subject to an assessment for impairment using a two step fair value based test, the first step of which must be performed at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. If an impairment is determined at ComEd, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed at ComEd. We performed the first step of the SFAS No. 142 impairment analysis, comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill, as of January 1, 2002, upon adoption of SFAS No. 142. That first step indicated no impairment of ComEds goodwill. In performing the Step I tests as prescribed in SFAS No. 142, ComEd determined that discounted cash flow models would provide the most appropriate measure to determine Step I fair value. Consistent with the guidance in SFAS No. 142, ComEd prepared multiple scenario discounted cash flow models in order to determine the value for Step I of SFAS No. 142. These models use multiple assumptions including revenue growth rates, general expense escalation rates, allowed return on equity, a risk adjusted discount rate and long term earnings multiples of comparable companies. In addition to the above noted assumptions, ComEds model included varying assumptions regarding: The timing of future rate case filings to establish new rates for bundled service after the then scheduled 2004 expiration of the rate freeze period, which has subsequently been extended to 2006 by Illinois law. Rate changes were assumed to occur at various points in 2005 through 2007 in the different scenarios. The cash flow impact of the expiration of the rate freeze and the resolution of uncertainties regarding future commodity risk at the expiration of the current PPA with Generation, the resolution of ComEds POLR obligation and various other risks and uncertainties. The results of the Step I analysis for ComEd showed a weighted average probabilistic valuation of the multiple scenario discounted cash flows in excess of ComEds book carrying amount, including goodwill, at December 31, 2001. Since the Step I calculated fair value was in excess of book value, we could conclude that ComEds goodwill of $4.9 billion was not impaired. As required by SFAS No. 142, ComEd performed the annual update of ComEds goodwill impairment analyses using a November 1, 2002 measurement date. This valuation determined the Step I calculated fair value of ComEd to be in excess of its book value at November 1, 2002. Since the Step I calculated fair value was in excess of book value, we concluded that goodwill was not impaired. Again, the probabilistic discounted cash flows model used in these analyses included the significant 61 assumptions noted above. Rate changes were assumed to occur at various points in 2007 through 2009 in the different scenarios for ComEd based on the June 2002 extension of the rate freeze. Modifications to any of the assumptions discussed above, particularly changes in discount rates, long term earnings multiples of comparable companies used to determine terminal values, and the expected results of rate proceedings, could result in a future impairment of goodwill. Actual results as well as market conditions in upcoming periods will impact the probabilities of scenarios used in the models. If the estimates of future cash flows in the ComEd model had been 10% lower, those discounted cash flows would still have been greater than the carrying values of ComEd. As we were not required to perform a Step II analysis at the November 1, 2002 measurement date for ComEd, a dollar amount for any potential impairment has not been determined. Because goodwill represents approximately 85% of ComEds common equity, a potential future impairment of goodwill could significantly impact ComEds ability to pay dividends to Exelon under PUHCA. The Illinois legislation provides that reductions to ComEds common equity resulting from goodwill impairments will not impact ComEds earnings cap calculation through 2006. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to essentially all ComEd, PECO, and Generation employees. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation, and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon utilizes assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increase and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions" (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 106, "Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions" the impact of changes in these factors on pension and other postretirement welfare benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected remaining service life of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. In selecting the expected rate of return on plan assets, Exelon considered historical and expected returns for the types of investments the plans hold. Exelons pension trust assets have lost $581 million, and $265 million, and gained $173 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.5% at January 1, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Exelon generally maintains 60% of its plan assets in equity securities and 40% of its plan assets in fixed income securities. Each quarter Exelon reviews the actual asset allocations and follows a rebalancing procedure in order to remain within an allowable range of these targeted percentages. Based on Exelons asset allocation and long term historical returns for both equity and fixed income securities, Exelon set its EROA at 9.0% as of January 1, 2003 in order to calculate 2003 pension cost. Exelons other postretirement benefit assets have lost $125 million, $14 million and $7 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The EROA assumption used in calculating the other postretirement benefit obligation was 8.8% at January 1, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Exelon will use an EROA assumption of 8.4% as of January 1, 2003 in order to calculate the 2003 other postretirement benefit costs. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. Exelon uses the Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index as a basis in selecting the discount rate. Exelon set the assumed discount rate at 7.35% and 6.75% at December 31, 2001 and 2002, respectively, in its estimate of pension expense and other postretirement benefit costs. 62 The following table illustrates the effect of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above: Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2002 Impact on Pension Liability at December 31, 2002 Impact on 2003 Pension Cost Pension Benefits Decrease Discount Rate by 0.5% $ 336 $ 336 $ 8 Decrease Rate of Return on Plan Assets by 0.5% 32 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2002 Impact on Postretirement Benefit Liability at December 31, 2002 Impact on 2003 Postretirement Benefit Cost Postretirement Benefits Decrease Discount Rate by 0.5% $ 152 $ $ 18 Decrease Rate of Return on Plan Assets by 0.5% 6 The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during Exelons annual review process. The impact of assumption changes are reflected in the recorded pension amounts consistent with assumption changes as they occur. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension amounts and funding requirements could also change. Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plans have unrecognized losses of $2.1 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2002. This unrecognized loss primarily represents the difference between the expected return on plan assets and the actual return on plan assets that has not yet been recognized in pension or other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon generally amortizes these unrecognized (gains)/losses over five years; however, the annual amortization amounts vary based on actuarial determinations. Recognition of an unrecognized loss will result in increased net periodic pension cost going forward. Primarily as a result of sharp declines in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000, Exelon recognized an additional minimum liability of $1.0 billion, net of income taxes, and an intangible asset of $211 million as prescribed by SFAS No. 87 in the fourth quarter of 2002. The liability was recorded as a reduction to shareholders equity, and the equity will be restored to the balance sheet in future periods when the fair value of plan assets exceeds the accumulated benefit obligation. The recording of this additional minimum liability did not affect net income or cash flow in 2002 or compliance with debt covenants; however, pension cost and cash funding requirements could increase in future years without a substantial recovery in the equity markets. Exelons defined benefit pension plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 without any additional funding; however, Exelon made a discretionary tax deductible plan contribution of $150 million in the fourth quarter of 2002, of which $82 million and $60 million were funded by ComEd and Generation, respectively. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary tax deductible plan contribution in 2003 of $300 million to $350 million. Approximately $15 million, $22 million and $37 million were included in operating and maintenance expense in 2002 for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively, for the cost of our pension and postretirement benefit plans, exclusive of the 2002 charges for employee severance programs. Although the 2003 increase in pension and postretirement benefit cost will depend on market conditions, Exelons estimate is that expense will increase by approximately $48 million, 63 $21 million and $52 million for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively, in 2003 from 2002 expense levels as the result of the effects of the decline in market value of plan assets in 2002, the decline in discount rate and increases in health care costs. In 2001, Exelon adopted a cash balance pension plan. All management and electing union employees who were hired by Exelon after 2001 became participants in the plan. Approximately 4,700 management employees who were active participants in Exelons previous qualified defined benefit plans at December 31, 2000 and remained employed by Exelon on January 1, 2002 elected to transfer to the cash balance plan. Participants in the cash balance plan, unlike participants in the other defined benefit plans, may request a lump sum cash payment upon employee termination. This may result in increased cash requirements from pension plan assets, which may increase future funding to the pension plan. Stock Based Compensation Plans (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon maintains a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for certain full time salaried employees and previously maintained a broad based incentive program for certain other employees. The types of long term incentive awards that have been granted under the LTIP are non qualified options to purchase shares of our common stock and common stock awards. The exercise price of the stock options is equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of option grant. Options granted under the LTIP and the broad based incentive program become exercisable upon attainment of a target share value and or time. All options expire 10 years from the date of grant. At December 31, 2002, there were 13,000,000 options authorized for issuance under Exelons LTIP and 2,000,000 options authorized under Exelons broad based incentive program. ComEd, PECO and Generation currently follow the disclosure only provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" (SFAS No. 123). If ComEd, PECO and Generation had elected to account for stock based compensation based on SFAS No. 123, ComEd, PECO and Generation would have recognized compensation expense as follows: 2002 2001 2000 ComEd $ 13 $ 10 $ 13 (a) PECO 13 15 17 Generation 15 9 10 (a)Includes Unicom expense of $3 million for the period of 2000 prior to the Merger. Exelon uses an independent actuarial firm to calculate the fair value of the options and to assist in the development of amounts required to be disclosed under SFAS No. 123. The key assumptions used in this determination of fair value are the expected volatility of the stock price, based on historical information; the expected life of the options, based on the vesting period and expiration date of the options; the estimated dividend yield, based on historical information adjusted for material known future changes; and the risk free interest rate, based on the yield of a United States Treasury Strip available on the date of the grant and expiring at the approximate end of the options term. Changes in these assumptions could have resulted in material changes in the amounts disclosed under SFAS No. 123 in ComEd, PECO and Generations Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Combinations (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In the three year period ended December 31, 2002, Exelon has completed several business combinations and asset acquisitions. Exelon adopted SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" (SFAS No. 141), as of January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 141 is effective for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations be accounted for under the 64 purchase method of accounting and establishes criteria for the separate recognition of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. Under the purchase method of accounting, purchased assets and liabilities must be recorded at their fair value. If a quoted fair value is not readily available for the majority of assets and liabilities exchanged, the determination of this fair value requires the use of significant judgment, both by management and outside experts engaged to assist in this determination process. Changes in the assumptions made in determining the fair values could have resulted in material changes in the amounts disclosed in Note 3 of the Notes to ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5 of the Notes to PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes 2 and 4 of the Notes to Generations Consolidated Financial Statements. There would also be an impact on Exelons financial results. If the fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired in a business combination would have been higher, and an amount allocated to goodwill in the business combination lower, depreciation expense would have been higher. Conversely, if the fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired in a business combination would have been lower, and an amount allocated to goodwill in the business combination higher, depreciation expense would have been lower. For example, if the $2 billion fair value of the generating plants acquired in the Merger was estimated to be 1% higher, then annual depreciation expense would be less than $1 million higher and goodwill amortization, which ceased in 2002, would have been less than $1 million lower annually. Unbilled Energy Revenues (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to ComEd and PECOs sale of energy are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month since the date of the last meter reading are estimated and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand measured by generation volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers (line loss) and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2002 include unbilled energy revenues of $250 million on a base of annual revenue of $6.1 billion for ComEd and $129 million on a base of annual revenue of $4.3 billion for PECO. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue. Revenues related to Generations sale of energy are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand, fixed quantity sales, generation volume and applicable market or fixed rates. Customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2002 include unbilled energy revenues of $370 million on a base of annual revenue of $6.9 billion. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Environmental Costs (ComEd, PECO and Generation) As of December 31, 2002, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $101 million, $40 million and $15 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which we will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where timing, scope and expenditures of remediation efforts can be reasonably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts, recorded at ComEd, represent $97 million of the total ComEd accrued liabilities above. Where the timing, scope 65 and expenditures of remediation efforts cannot be reasonably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $4 million, $40 million and $15 million of the total accrued liabilities above for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology and changes in regulations or the requirements of Federal, state and local governmental authorities. During 2002, ComEd increased its reserve for environmental costs by $17 million as the result of a delay in implementing the ongoing remediation for a manufactured gas plant site in Oak Park, Illinois. New Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 143 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 provides accounting requirements for retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. We will adopt SFAS No. 143 as of January 1, 2003. Retirement obligations associated with long lived assets included within the scope of SFAS No. 143 are those for which there is a legal obligation to settle under existing or enacted law, statute, written or oral contract or by legal construction under the doctrine of promissory estoppel. Adoption of SFAS No. 143 will change the accounting for the decommissioning of our nuclear generating plants as well as certain other long lived assets. ComEd, PECO and Generation are in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 143 on their financial condition. While ComEd and PECO do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143 to have a material impact on their financial condition, Generation does expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143 to have a material impact on its financial condition related to its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants. As it relates to nuclear decommissioning, the effect of a cumulative adjustment will be to decrease the decommissioning liability to reflect the fair value of the decommissioning obligation at the balance sheet date. Additionally, SFAS No. 143 will require the recognition of an asset related to the decommissioning obligation, which will be amortized over the remaining lives of the plants. The net difference, between the asset recognized and the change in the liability to reflect fair value recorded upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, will be recorded in earnings and recognized as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of expected regulatory recovery and income taxes. The decommissioning liability will then represent an obligation for the future decommissioning of the plants and, as a result, accretion expense will be accrued on this liability until the obligation is satisfied. Currently, Generation records the obligation for decommissioning ratably over the lives of the plants. Based on the current information and the credit adjusted risk free rate, Generation estimates the increase in 2003 non cash expense to impact Generation earnings before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for the adoption of SFAS No. 143 by approximately $30 million, after income taxes. Additionally, the adoption of SFAS No. 143 is expected to result in a non cash, one time cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle gain at Generation of approximately $1.9 billion, after income taxes. The $1.9 billion gain and the $30 million charge includes Generations share of the impact of the SFAS No. 143 adoption related to AmerGens nuclear plants. These impacts are based on Generations current interpretation of SFAS No. 143 and are subject to continued refinement based on the finalization of assumptions and interpretation at the time of adopting the standard, including the determination of the credit adjusted risk free rate. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation will continue to be adjusted on an ongoing basis as these model input factors change. The final determination of the 2003 earnings impact and the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 143 is in part a function of the credit adjusted risk free rate at the time of the adoption of SFAS No. 143. Additionally, although over the life of the plant the charges to earnings for the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability will be equal to the amounts that would have been recognized as decommissioning expense under current accounting, the timing of those charges will change and in 66 the near term period subsequent to adoption, the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability is expected to result in an increase in expense. SFAS No. 146 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" (SFAS No. 146). SFAS No. 146 requires that the liability for costs associated with exit or disposal activities be recognized when incurred, rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. SFAS No. 146 is to be applied prospectively to exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. FIN No. 45 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In November 2002, the FASB released FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" (FIN No. 45), providing for expanded disclosures and recognition of a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken by the guarantor. Under FIN No. 45, guarantors are required to disclose the nature of the guarantee, the maximum amount of potential future payments, the carrying amount of the liability and the nature and amount of recourse provisions or available collateral that would be recoverable by the guarantor. As of December 31, 2002, we have adopted disclosure requirements under FIN No. 45, which were effective for financial statements for periods ended after December 15, 2002. The recognition and measurement provisions of FIN No. 45 are effective, on a prospective basis, for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. FIN No. 46 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" (FIN No. 46). FIN No. 46 addresses consolidating certain variable interest entities and applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. The impact, if any, of adopting FIN 46 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, has not been fully determined. 67  ComEd General On October 20, 2000, ComEd became a 99.9% owned subsidiary of Exelon as a result of the transactions relating to the Merger. As a result of the Merger, ComEds consolidated financial information for the period after the Merger has a different cost basis than that of previous periods. Material variances caused by the different cost basis have been disclosed where applicable. Through December 31, 2000, ComEd operated as a vertically integrated electric utility. During January 2001, Exelon undertook a restructuring to separate its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery business. As part of the restructuring, the non regulated operations and related assets and liabilities of ComEd were transferred to separate subsidiaries of Exelon. As a result, beginning January 2001, the operations of ComEd principally consist of the purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in northern Illinois. The restructuring has had a significant impact on all components of ComEds results of operations. The estimated impact of the restructuring set forth herein reflects the effects of removing the operations related to ComEds nuclear generating stations and obtaining energy and capacity from Generation under the terms of the PPA for the year ended December 31, 2000. 68 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends ComEd 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power 2,585 2,670 (85 ) (3.2 )% Operating and Maintenance 964 981 (17 ) (1.7 )% Depreciation and Amortization 522 665 (143 ) (21.5 )% Taxes Other Than Income 287 296 (9 ) (3.0 )% Total Operating Expense 4,358 4,612 (254 ) (5.5 )% OPERATING INCOME 1,766 1,594 172 10.8% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (484 ) (565 ) 81 (14.3 )% Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities (30 ) (30 ) Other, Net 44 114 (70 ) (61.4 )% Total Other Income and Deductions (470 ) (481 ) 11 (2.3 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 1,296 1,113 183 16.4% INCOME TAXES 506 506 NET INCOME $ 790 $ 607 $ 183 30.1% Net Income Net income increased $183 million, or 30% in 2002. Net income was primarily impacted by the discontinuation of goodwill amortization, lower depreciation rates effective August 1, 2002, lower interest expense and a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by the effects of a 5% residential rate reduction effective October 1, 2001, customers electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO and lower intercompany interest income. 69 Operating Revenues ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs)(1) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Deliveries(2) Residential 27,474 25,282 2,192 8.7 % Small Commercial & Industrial 22,365 23,435 (1,070 ) (4.6 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 7,885 10,305 (2,420 ) (23.5 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 6,480 7,879 (1,399 ) (17.8 )% 64,204 66,901 (2,697 ) (4.0 )% Unbundled Deliveries(3) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 5,219 2,865 2,354 82.2 % Large Commercial & Industrial 7,095 5,458 1,637 30.0 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 912 365 547 149.9 % 13,226 8,688 4,538 52.2 % PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 3,152 3,279 (127 ) (3.9 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 5,131 5,750 (619 ) (10.8 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 1,347 987 360 36.5 % 9,630 10,016 (386 ) (3.9 )% Total Unbundled Deliveries 22,856 18,704 4,152 22.2 % Total Retail Deliveries 87,060 85,605 1,455 1.7 % (1)One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWhs. (2)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (3)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 70 Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Revenues(1) Residential $ 2,381 $ 2,308 $ 73 3.2 % Small Commercial & Industrial 1,736 1,821 (85 ) (4.7 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 410 523 (113 ) (21.6 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 377 430 (53 ) (12.3 )% 4,904 5,082 (178 ) (3.5 )% Unbundled Revenues(2) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 138 48 90 187.5 % Large Commercial & Industrial 154 74 80 108.1 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 28 5 23 n.m. 320 127 193 152.0 % PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 204 220 (16 ) (7.3 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 278 343 (65 ) (19.0 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 71 59 12 20.3 % 553 622 (69 ) (11.1 )% Total Unbundled Revenues 873 749 124 16.6 % Total Electric Retail Revenues 5,777 5,831 (54 ) (0.9 )% Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 347 375 (28 ) (7.5 )% Total Electric Revenue $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% (1)Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2)Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission, and distribution charges and a CTC charge. (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer Choice $ (131 ) Rate Changes (99 ) Weather 88 Volume 91 Other Effects (3 ) Retail Revenue $ (54 ) Customer Choice. The decrease in revenues reflects customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 22,700 retail customers had elected to purchase energy from an ARES or the ComEd PPO, an increase from 18,700 customers at December 31, 2001. The megawatthours (MWhs or the equivalent of one thousand KWhs) delivered to such customers increased from approximately 18.7 million in 2001 to 22.9 million in 2002, a 22% increase from the previous year. 71 Rate Changes. The decrease attributable to rate changes reflects a 5% residential rate reduction, effective October 1, 2001, required by the Illinois restructuring legislation. Weather. The demand for electricity service is impacted by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months is referred to as "favorable weather conditions," because these weather conditions result in increased demand for electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. The weather impact for 2002 was favorable compared to 2001 as a result of warmer summer weather and slightly cooler winter weather in 2002 compared to 2001. Cooling degree days increased 29% and heating degree days increased 3% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of weather, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily residential. The reduction in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due primarily to a $38 million decrease in off system sales due to the expiration of wholesale contracts that were offered by ComEd from June 2000 to May 2001 to support the open access program in Illinois, and a $15 million reversal of reserve for revenue refunds in 2001 related to certain of ComEds municipal customers as a result of a favorable FERC ruling, partially offset by a reimbursement from Generation of $12 million for third party energy reconciliations and $13 million of other miscellaneous revenue. Purchased Power Purchased power expense decreased $85 million, or 3% in 2002. The decrease in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a $145 million decrease as a result of customers choosing to purchase energy from an ARES and a $34 million decrease due to the expiration of the wholesale contracts offered by ComEd to support the open access program in Illinois partially offset by a $41 million increase associated with increased retail demand due to favorable weather conditions, a $16 million increase due to the effects of increased weather normalized volumes for residential and small commercial and industrial customers, an $18 million increase due to an increase in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost per MWh of electricity and $20 million in additional expense as a result of third party energy reconciliations. Operating and Maintenance The $17 million decrease in operating and maintenance (O&M) expense is comprised of $32 million of lower payroll costs due to employee reductions, $16 million in cost reductions from Exelons Cost Management Initiative and $24 million miscellaneous other net positive impacts, partially offset by $25 million in additional employee benefit costs, a $16 million net increase in environmental and remediation expense and a $14 million increase in injuries and damages expense. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $143 million, or 22%, in 2002 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Depreciation Expense $ 334 $ 353 $ (19 ) (5.4 )% Recoverable Transition Costs Amortization 102 108 (6 ) (5.6 )% Other Amortization Expense 86 204 (118 ) (57.8 )% Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 522 $ 665 $ (143 ) (21.5 )% 72 The decrease in depreciation expense is due to a $48 million decrease related to lower depreciation rates partially offset by the effect of higher in service property, plant and equipment balances. Recoverable transition costs amortization expense is determined using the expected period of the rate freeze and the expected returns in the periods under the rate freeze. The reduction in amortization expense in 2002 is due to the extension of the rate freeze in the second quarter of 2002. ComEd expects to fully recover these assets by the end of 2006. The decrease in Other Amortization Expense is primarily attributable to the discontinuation of amortization of goodwill as required by SFAS No. 142. During 2001, $126 million of goodwill was amortized. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased by $9 million, or 3% in 2002. The primary positive impact was the result of real estate tax refunds in the amount of $5 million. Interest Charges Interest charges decreased $81 million, or 14% in 2002. The decrease in interest charges was primarily attributable to the impact of lower interest rates for 2002 as compared to 2001, the early retirement of $196 million of First Mortgage Bonds in November of 2001, the retirement of $340 million in transitional trust notes during 2002, and $10 million of intercompany interest expense in 2001 relating to a payable in Generation, which was repaid during 2001. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions, excluding interest charges, decreased $70 million, or 61%, in 2002. The decrease was primarily attributable to $8 million in intercompany interest income relating to the $400 million receivable from PECO which was repaid during the second quarter of 2001, a $31 million reduction in intercompany interest income from Unicom Investment Inc., reflecting lower interest rates, $9 million in intercompany interest income from Generation in 2001 on the processing of certain invoice payments on behalf of Generation, a $12 million reserve for a potential plant disallowance resulting from an audit performed in conjunction with ComEds delivery services rate case, and an $10 million decrease in various other income and deductions items. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.0% in 2002, compared to 45.5% in 2001. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the discontinuation of goodwill amortization as of January 1, 2002, which was not deductible for income tax purposes, and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. 73 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Summary Financial Information ComEd Components of Variance 2001 2000 Restructuring Impact Normal Operations Total (in millions) OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,206 $ 7,012 $ (707 ) $ (99 ) $ (806 ) Purchased Power and Fuel 2,670 1,977 677 16 693 Operating and Maintenance 981 2,076 (1,072 ) (23 ) (1,095 ) Merger Related Costs 67 (67 ) (67 ) Depreciation and Amortization 665 998 (282 ) (51 ) (333 ) Taxes Other Than Income 296 508 (131 ) (81 ) (212 ) Total Operating Expenses 4,612 5,626 (808 ) (206 ) (1,014 ) OPERATING INCOME 1,594 1,386 101 107 208 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (565 ) (602 ) 43 (6 ) 37 Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities (30 ) (30 ) Other, Net 114 308 (194 ) (194 ) Total Other Income and Deductions (481 ) (324 ) 43 (200 ) (157 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 1,113 1,062 144 (93 ) 51 INCOME TAXES 506 330 72 104 176 NET INCOME 607 732 72 (197 ) (125 ) Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends (3 ) 3 3 NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 607 $ 729 $ 72 $ (194 ) $ (122 ) Net Income Net income from normal operations decreased $197 million, or 25% in 2001. Net income was impacted by $107 million in increased operating income offset by a higher effective tax rate and a $194 million decrease in other income and deductions primarily attributable to a gain on the forward share purchase arrangement recognized during 2000 and a reduction in intercompany interest income in 2001 as compared to 2000. 74 Operating Revenues Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and distribution of the energy. Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from the PPO or an ARES. Revenue from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges and a CTC charge. Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2001 2000 Variance Bundled Deliveries(1) Residential 25,282 23,997 1,285 Small Commercial & Industrial 23,435 24,833 (1,398 ) Large Commercial & Industrial 10,305 15,348 (5,043 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 7,879 7,665 214 66,901 71,843 (4,942 ) Unbundled Deliveries(2) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 2,865 2,772 93 Large Commercial & Industrial 5,458 5,807 (349 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 365 297 68 8,688 8,876 (188 ) PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 3,279 1,433 1,846 Large Commercial & Industrial 5,750 2,812 2,938 Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 987 1,088 (101 ) 10,016 5,333 4,683 Total Unbundled Deliveries 18,704 14,209 4,495 Total Retail Deliveries 85,605 86,052 (447 ) (1)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 75 Electric Revenue 2001 2000 Variance (in millions) Bundled Revenue(1) Residential $ 2,308 $ 2,235 $ 73 Small Commercial & Industrial 1,821 1,949 (128 ) Large Commercial & Industrial 523 811 (288 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 430 424 6 5,082 5,419 (337 ) Unbundled Revenue(2) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 48 62 (14 ) Large Commercial & Industrial 74 115 (41 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 5 7 (2 ) 127 184 (57 ) PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 220 92 128 Large Commercial & Industrial 343 158 185 Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 59 56 3 622 306 316 Total Unbundled Revenues 749 490 259 Total Electric Retail Revenues 5,831 5,909 (78 ) Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 375 396 (4) (21 ) Total Electric Revenues $ 6,206 $ 6,305 $ (99 ) (1)Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2)Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission, and distribution charges and a CTC charge. (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. (4)Includes the operations of ComEd as if the 2001 corporate restructuring had occurred on January 1, 2000. The changes in electric retail revenues for 2001, as compared to 2000, were attributable to the following: Variance (in millions) Customer Choice $ (145 ) Weather 103 Revenue Taxes (88 ) Other Effects 76 Rate Changes (24 ) Electric Retail Revenue $ (78 ) Customer Choice. ComEd non residential customers have the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers. This choice generally does not impact MWh deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd. The decrease in revenues reflects customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. As of December 31, 2001, 76 approximately 18,700 retail customers, representing 22% of total annual retail deliveries, had elected to purchase energy from the PPO or an ARES, compared to approximately 9,500 customers, representing 17% of total annual retail deliveries, as of December 31, 2000. Weather. Although weather was moderate in 2001, the weather impact was favorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer summer weather offset in part by warmer winter weather in 2001. Cooling degree days increased 11% in 2001 compared to 2000 while heating degree days decreased 5% in 2001 compared to 2000. Revenue taxes. The change in revenue taxes represents a change in presentation of certain revenue taxes from operating revenue and tax expense to collections recorded as liabilities resulting from Illinois legislation. This change in presentation does not affect results of operations. Other Effects. A strong housing construction market in Chicago has contributed to residential and small commercial and industrial customer volume growth, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a slower economy on large commercial and industrial customers. Rate Changes. The decrease in revenues attributable to rate changes reflects a 5% residential rate reduction, effective October 1, 2001, required by the Illinois restructuring legislation. The reduction in wholesale and miscellaneous revenues in 2001 as compared to 2000, as if the restructuring occurred on January 1, 2000, reflects a $101 million reduction in off system sales due to the expiration of wholesale contracts that were offered by ComEd from June 2000 to May 2001 to support the open access program in Illinois, partially offset by a $58 million increase in transmission service revenue and the reversal of a $15 million reserve for revenue refunds to ComEds municipal customers as a result of a favorable FERC ruling. Purchased Power and Fuel Purchased power and fuel expense increased $16 million, or 1%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense was primarily attributable to increases in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost per MWh, partially offset by a decrease in MWhs purchased. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense decreased $23 million, or 2%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The decrease in O&M expense was primarily attributable to a decrease in customer credit and billing costs due to process improvements and a decrease in storm restoration and service reliability costs, partially offset by higher administrative and general costs. Merger Related Costs Merger related costs charged to expense in 2000 were $67 million consisting of $26 million of direct incremental costs and $41 million for employee costs. Direct incremental costs represent expenses directly associated with completing the Merger, including professional fees, regulatory approval, and other merger integration costs. Employee costs represent estimated severance payments provided for under Exelons Merger Separation Plan for eligible employees whose positions were eliminated before October 20, 2000 due to planned integration activities of the merged companies. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $51 million, or 7%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. Regulatory asset and decommissioning amortization decreased $180 million primarily due to the gain on the settlement of the common stock forward purchase arrangement in the 77 first quarter of 2000, partially offset by a $103 million increase in goodwill amortization representing the impact of a full year of amortization expense in 2001 and a $26 million increase in depreciation expense from increased plant in service due to continued transmission and distribution capital improvements. Consistent with the provisions of the Illinois legislation, regulatory assets may be recovered at amounts that provide ComEd an earned return on common equity within the Illinois legislation earnings threshold. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Annual goodwill amortization of $126 million in 2001 was discontinued in 2002 upon the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased $81 million, or 21%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The decrease in taxes other than income was primarily attributable to the effect of the change in certain revenue taxes from operating revenue and tax expense to collections recorded as liabilities resulting from Illinois legislation. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts. Interest charges increased $6 million, or 1%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The increase in interest expense was primarily attributable to increased interest accrued on estimated tax liabilities and interest due on amounts payable to affiliates. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions, excluding interest charges, decreased $194 million, compared to 2000. The decrease was primarily attributable to the $113 million gain on the forward share purchase arrangement recognized during 2000 and a $115 million reduction in intercompany interest income in 2001 from Unicom Investment, Inc., reflecting the impact of declining interest rates and an $850 million reduction in intercompany notes receivable in the fourth quarter of 2000, partially offset by the $38 million loss on the sale of Cotter Corporation, a ComEd subsidiary, recognized during 2000. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 45.5% in 2001, compared to 31.1% in 2000. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the effects of the gain on the forward share purchase arrangement recorded in 2000, which was not recognized for tax purposes, a full year of goodwill amortization in 2001, which is not deductible for tax purposes, the amortization of certain recoverable transition costs, which is not deductible for tax purposes and lower investment tax credit amortization resulting from the application of purchase accounting in connection with the Merger. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing including the issuance of commercial paper. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt and the payment of dividends. 78  Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations in 2002 were $2.0 billion as compared to $1.3 billion in 2001. The increase in cash flows in 2002 was primarily attributable to a $183 million increase in net income, a $175 million increase in other operating activities, and a $422 million increase in working capital partially offset by a decrease of $143 million in depreciation and amortization. ComEds future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve reductions in operating costs, the impact of the economy, weather, and customer choice on its revenues. Although the amounts may vary from period to period as a result of uncertainties inherent in the business, ComEd expects to continue to provide a reliable and steady source of internal cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. ComEd participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon made a $150 million discretionary plan contribution in 2002, $82 million of which was funded by ComEd. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary plan contribution of $300 million to $350 million in 2003. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $759 million in 2002 compared to $458 million in 2001. The increase in cash flows used in investing activities in 2002 was primarily attributable to the paydown of the $400 million outstanding receivable from PECO in the second quarter of 2001 partially offset by an $89 million decrease in capital expenditures. ComEds investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 were funded primarily through operating activities. ComEd estimates that it will spend approximately $720 million in total capital expenditures for 2003. Approximately two thirds of the budgeted 2003 expenditures are for continuing efforts to further improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems. The remaining one third is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. ComEd anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2002 were $1,231 million as compared to $1,006 million in 2001. Cash flows used in financing activities were primarily attributable to debt service and payments of dividends to Exelon. ComEds debt financing activities in 2002 reflected the issuance of $600 million of First Mortgage Bonds, the issuance of $100 million of Illinois Development Finance Authority floating rate Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds, the retirement of $340 million of transitional trust notes, the redemption of $600 million in First Mortgage Bonds with available cash, the payment at maturity of $200 million in First Mortgage Bonds, the payment at maturity of $200 million in variable rate senior notes, the payment at maturity of $100 million of fixed rate medium term notes and the redemption of $100 million of 7.25% Illinois Development Finance Authority Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds. As of December 31, 2002, ComEd had $123 million in short term borrowings of which $52 million has been classified as long term debt. In 2001, ComEds debt financing activities reflected the retirement of $340 million of transitional trust notes and the redemption of $196 million in First Mortgage Bonds. ComEd paid a $470 million dividend to Exelon during 2002 compared to a $483 million dividend in 2001. Credit Issues ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. ComEd, along with Exelon, PECO, and 79 Generation, participates in a $1.5 billion unsecured 364 day revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The credit facility that became effective on November 22, 2002, includes a term out option that allows any outstanding borrowings at the end of the revolving credit period to be repaid on November 21, 2004. Exelon may increase or decrease the sublimits of each of the participants upon written notification to the banks. As of December 31, 2002, ComEds sublimit was $200 million. The credit facility is used principally to support ComEds commercial paper program. At December 31, 2002, ComEds Balance Sheet reflects $123 million in commercial paper outstanding, of which $52 million was classified as long term debt. For 2002, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.69%. Certain of the credit agreements to which ComEd is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. ComEds threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, ComEd was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. At December 31, 2002, ComEds capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $615 million receivable from Exelon, consisted of 46% long term debt, 50% of common stock, 3% of preferred securities of subsidiaries, and 1% of notes payable. Long term debt included $2.0 billion of transitional trust notes constituting obligations of certain consolidated special purpose entities representing 16% of capitalization. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the Exelon corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether such funding results in mutual economic benefits to each of the participants, although Exelon is not permitted to be a net borrower from the money pool. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or specific borrowing rates if the funds are provided by external financing. There have been no material money pool transactions in 2002. ComEds access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. None of ComEds borrowings are subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows ComEds securities ratings at December 31, 2002: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings ComEd Senior secured debt A3 A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Under PUHCA, ComEd can only pay dividends from retained or current earnings; however, the SEC has authorized ComEd to pay up to $500 million in dividends out of additional paid in capital, provided ComEd may not pay dividends out of paid in capital after December 31, 2002 if its common equity is less than 30% of its total capitalization (including transitional trust notes). ComEd is 80 precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. At December 31, 2002, ComEd had retained earnings of $577 million. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments ComEds contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 6,024 (a) $ 750 (a) $ 1,383 $ 1,295 $ 2,596 Notes Payable 71 71 Operating Leases 135 22 38 32 43 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities 350 350 Total Contractual Obligations $ 6,580 $ 843 $ 1,421 $ 1,327 $ 2,989 (a)Includes $52 million of commercial paper classified as long term debt under the provisions of SFAS No. 6, "Classification of Short term Obligations to be Refinanced." On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt see Note 10 notes payable see Note 9 operating leases see Note 16 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities see Note 13 Midwest Agreement see Note 19 81 ComEds commercial commitments as of December 31, 2002 representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, including financing arrangements to secure obligations of ComEd, are as follows: Expiration within After 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Credit Facility(a) $ 200 $ 200 $ $ $ Letters of Credit (non debt)(b) 24 24 Letter of Credit (Long term Debt)(c) 92 92 Insured Long Term Debt(d) 100 100 Surety Bonds(e) 18 18 Total Commercial Commitments $ 434 $ 334 $ $ $ 100 (a)Credit Facility ComEd, along with Exelon, PECO and Generation, maintain a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility to support commercial paper issuances. ComEd has a $200 million sublimit under the credit facility. At December 31, 2002, there were no borrowings against the credit facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, ComEd had $123 million in outstanding commercial paper. (b)Letters of Credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (c)Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt) Direct pay letters of credit issued in connection with variable rate debt in order to provide liquidity in the event that it is not possible to remarket all of the debt as required following specific events, including changes in the basis of determining the interest rate on the debt. (d)Insured Long Term Debt Borrowings that have been credit enhanced through the purchase of insurance coverage equal to the amount of principal outstanding plus interest. (e)Surety Bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial surety bonds, excluding bid bonds. As part of a settlement agreement between ComEd and Chicago relating to ComEds Chicago franchise agreement, ComEd and Chicago agreed to a revised combination of ongoing work under the franchise agreement and new initiatives that total approximately $1 billion in defined transmission and distribution expenditures by ComEd to improve electric service in Chicago, all of which has been expended through December 31, 2002. Critical Accounting Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds Critical Accounting Estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business ComEd faces a number of challenges in achieving its vision and keeping its commitments to its customers and investors. ComEd may be significantly impacted by the end of its regulatory transition period in 2006. A significant challenge is that by existing law, after 2006, ComEd will not collect CTCs from customers who elect to receive generation services from alternative energy suppliers including the ComEd PPO. Additionally, the current bundled rate structure may be reset in a regulatory proceeding. It is difficult to predict the outcome of a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates for 2007 and thereafter; nor is it possible to predict what changes may occur to the restructuring law in Illinois; 82 however, ComEd is undertaking various efforts to mitigate the 2007 challenge. This and other challenges that will affect how ComEd manages its business are described below. ComEd must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing its business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. ComEds business is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. ComEd is regulated by the ICC which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between ComEd and its affiliates. ComEd is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates transmission rates and certain other aspects of its business. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which ComEd does business, its ability to undertake specified actions and the costs of its operations. ComEd is involved in a number of regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of ComEds costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, ComEd looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grant some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. Delivery Services Rate Case. ComEd is authorized to charge customers who purchase electricity from an alternative supplier for the use of its distribution system to deliver that electricity. These delivery service rates are set through proceedings before the ICC based upon, among other things, the operating costs associated with ComEds distribution system and the capital investment that ComEd has made in its distribution system. In April 2002, the ICC issued an interim order that set delivery rates for ComEds residential customers. The interim order was subject to an audit of test year (2000) expenditures, including capital expenditures. In October 2002, the ICC received the report on the audit of the test year expenditures by a consulting firm engaged by the ICC to perform the audit. The consulting firm recommended certain additional disallowances to test year expenditures and rate base levels. ComEd does not expect any change in delivery service rates to have a significant impact on results of operations in 2003. However, the estimated potential investment write off, before income taxes, could be up to approximately $100 million if the ICC ultimately determines that all or some portion of ComEds distribution plant is not recoverable through rates. In 2002, ComEd recorded a charge to earnings, before income taxes, of $12 million representing the estimated minimum probable exposure. ComEd is in negotiations with several parties to resolve the delivery service case. 2003 Agreement. On March 3, 2003, ComEd entered into an agreement with various Illinois electric retail market suppliers, key customer groups and governmental parties regarding several matters affecting ComEds rates for electric service (Agreement). The Agreement contemplates a series of coordinated filings with the ICC, which must issue orders consistent with the Agreement in order for the provisions of the Agreement to become effective. The Agreement addresses, among other things: ComEds pending residential delivery services rate proceeding New residential delivery service rates would be set based upon substantially the same as the rates currently in effect under the interim order and would remain in effect through December 31, 2006, with a possible reopener in the event that a reexamination in 2005 shows that ComEd is either under recovering or over recovering by more than 15% based on those rates. In addition, a $109 million distribution system capital expenditure disallowance that was 83 proposed in the pending proceeding by a consulting firm engaged by the ICC to audit ComEds test year expenditures, would not be reflected in the revenue requirement. Under the Agreement, distribution system plant reflected in the rate filing would be considered prudent and used and useful for purposes of this and future rate proceedings. Illinois electricity market development There would be a modification of the methodology used to determine the market value energy credit. That credit is used to determine the price for specified market based rate offerings by ComEd, and the rate for the CTC that ComEd is allowed to collect from customers who select an alternative retail electricity supplier. The credit would be adjusted upward through agreed upon "adders," which would take effect in June 2003 and would have the effect of reducing the CTC rate charged customers. The estimated annual revenue impact of the reduction in CTC revenues under the Agreement is approximately $65 million to $70 million. In addition, customers would be offered an option to lock in CTC charges for longer periods. Currently, CTC charges are subject to change annually. Competitive service declarations that assist in mitigating ComEds POLR obligations The Agreement provides for the withdrawal of certain of the outstanding appeals of the competitive declaration for service to customers having load requirements of three or more megawatts. Also, it establishes a process for achieving in June 2004 a similar competitive declaration for service to customers having load requirements of one to three megawatts. ComEds ability to enter into a full requirements PPA with Generation The parties to the Agreement would not contest extending ComEds full requirements PPA, now in place through 2004, through 2006, replacing the partial requirements service for 2005 and 2006 in the existing agreement. The parties also would not contest ComEds continued recovery of up to $73 million in nuclear decommissioning charges during 2005 and 2006, depending on the amount of energy that ComEd would purchase from Generations nuclear plants formerly owned by ComEd. Funding of certain programs for customer and governmental groups The Agreement provides for a total of $51 million in funding to various consumer groups and governmental agencies for a variety of programs from 2003 through 2006. Those programs may include energy and environmental programs, efficiency products and services, residential consumer education, market development studies and installation of emergency generating equipment. ComEd believes the Agreement assists in protecting the integrity of the CTC that it is allowed to collect from customers who choose an alternative supplier; sets a reasonable delivery service rate; provides customers and ComEd with greater price certainty and stability; enhances its relationship with regulatory, governmental and key customer groups; avoids the costs, uncertainty and time associated with litigation; and presents a proactive approach to increasing competition in the supply of electricity in Illinois. In order for the Agreement to become effective, the ICC, which is not a party to the Agreement, must enter orders consistent with the Agreement by late March 2003 in various regulatory proceedings that are the subject of the Agreement. Although the parties to the Agreement have agreed as to the general content of those orders, there are other parties to the proceedings who are seeking changes or modifications to the proposed orders or otherwise seeking to delay or prevent the effectiveness of the Agreement. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Agreement will become effective. 84 If the Agreement becomes effective, ComEd would record a charge to earnings associated with the funding of specified programs and initiatives associated with the Agreement of $49 million on a present value basis before income taxes. This amount would be partially offset by the reversal of a $12 million (before income taxes) reserve established in the third quarter of 2002 for a potential capital disallowance in ComEds delivery services rate proceeding, and a credit of $10 million (before income taxes) related to the capitalization of employee incentive payments provided for in the delivery services order. The net one time charge for these items of $27 million (before income taxes) would be recognized upon receipt of necessary ICC approvals. ComEd must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Each year increases in both customers and the demand for energy requires expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues, and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of ComEds maintenance and capital expenditures. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. ComEd must manage its costs due to the rate and equity return limitations imposed on ComEds revenues. Rate freezes in effect at ComEd currently limit the ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. As a result, ComEds future results of operations will depend on the ability of ComEd to deliver electricity in a cost efficient manner, and to realize cost reductions to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. Rate limitations. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated rate freeze on bundled retail rates that will remain effective until January 1, 2007. Equity return limitation. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated cap on its return on common equity through the end of 2006. The cap is based on a two year average of the U.S. Treasury long term rates (25 years and above) plus 8.5%, and is compared to a two year average return on ComEds common equity. The legislation requires customer refunds equal to one half of any excess earnings above the cap. ComEd is allowed to include regulatory asset amortization in the calculation of earnings. ComEd has not triggered the earnings sharing provision and currently does not expect to trigger the earnings sharing provision in the years 2003 through 2006. However, due to the historically low interest rates used in calculating the earnings cap, ComEd may be required to amortize additional regulatory assets. ComEd has and will lose energy customers to other generation service providers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of ComEd will vary because of customer choice of generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Illinois, all of ComEds retail electric customers can choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative suppliers. If customers do not choose an alternative generation supplier or take service under ComEds PPO, ComEd is currently generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in its service territory at fixed rates, or in some instances, market derived rates. In addition, customers who choose an alternative generation supplier may later return to ComEd, provided, however, that under Illinois law ComEds obligation to provide generation 85 may be eliminated over time if the ICC finds that competitive supply options are available to certain classes of customers. ComEd remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation supplier. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation provider, ComEd revenues are likely to decline. At December 31, 2002, based on sales of energy approximately 27% of ComEds small commercial and industrial (C&I) load and 61% of its large C&I load were purchasing their generation service from an alternative generation supplier or had chosen ComEds PPO, a market based price for energy. There are currently no certified alternative suppliers for the residential market in ComEds service territory. The number of customers choosing alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that ComEd is authorized to charge by the ICC. As a result of the right of customer choice of generation suppliers, ComEd anticipates that its revenues and gross margins could be variable. ComEd continues to serve as the POLR for energy for all customers in its service territory. ComEd is required to make available generation service to all retail customers in its service territory, including customers that have taken energy from an alternative generation supplier. ComEds customers can "switch," that is, they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to ComEd and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on within limits. Because customers can switch, planning has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. In order to mitigate this risk with regard to its large commercial and industrial customers, on July 19, 2002, ComEd filed a request with the ICC to revise its POLR obligation in Illinois to be the back up energy supplier to certain businesses. ComEd obtained permission from the ICC to limit the availability by June 2006 of Rate 6L for 370 of its largest energy customers. These are commercial and industrial customers, including heavy industrial plants, large office buildings, government facilities and a variety of other businesses with peak demands of at least three megawatts (MWs). ComEds request affects a total of approximately 2,500 MWs. On November 14, 2002, the ICC allowed ComEds request to go into effect as of June 2003. ComEd has no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. Presently, ComEd manages the POLR obligation through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation is required to supply all of ComEds power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd load Generation must prepare for. The uncertainty increases Generations costs. As a result, and in connection with its July 2002 ICC request, ComEd is discussing the POLR obligation issue with a number of parties including those who were parties to ComEds rate request. ComEds long term PPA provides a partial hedge to its customers demand. Because the bundled rates ComEd charges its customers are frozen for several years as mentioned previously in the "Rate limitations" section, its ability to recover increased costs with increases in rates charged to these customers is limited. Therefore, to effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, ComEd has established power supply agreements with Generation that reduce exposure to the volatility of market prices through 2006. Market prices relative to ComEds bundled rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. ComEds business may be significantly impacted by the end of the regulatory transition period in 2006. Illinois electric utilities are allowed to collect CTCs from customers who choose an alternative supplier of electric generation service or choose a utilitys PPO. CTCs were intended to assist electric utilities, such as ComEd, in recovering stranded costs that might not otherwise be recoverable in a fully 86 competitive market. The CTC charge represents the difference between the competitive price of delivered energy (the sum of generation service at competitive prices and the regulated price of energy delivery) and recoveries under historical bundled rates, reduced by a mitigation factor. The CTC charges are updated annually. Over time, to facilitate the transition to a competitive market, the mitigation factor increases, thereby reducing the CTC charge. Under current law, ComEd will no longer collect CTCs at the end of 2006. In 2001, ComEd collected $110 million of CTC revenue, while in 2002, CTC revenue collected increased to $306 million due to the change in the competitive price of delivered electricity, primarily due to lower wholesale prices and more customers choosing alternative energy suppliers or the ComEd PPO. ComEd anticipates CTC revenues to be in the range of $350 million to $400 million for 2003 based on current assumptions about the competitive price of delivered energy and customers choice of electric suppliers. Based on increasing mitigation factors, ComEd expects CTC revenues to decline in 2004 through 2006. In 2006, CTC revenues are estimated to be approximately $250 to $300 million annually. In addition, the CTC is dependent on the ICCs determination of the market price of electricity. In a proceeding before the ICC, various market participants, including alternative providers and large customers, have proposed modifications to the method for determining the market price that, if accepted, could have the effect of reducing the CTC. If the ICC issues orders making the Agreement effective, modification to the method for determining the market price of electricity would have the effect of reducing CTC revenues by an estimated $65 million to $70 million annually, effective in June 2003. Under the current restructuring statute, in 2007 this revenue will drop to zero. Through 2006, ComEd will continue to have a bundled service obligation, particularly to residential and small commercial customers. ComEds current bundled service is generally provided under an all inclusive rate that does not separately break out charges for energy generation service and energy delivery service, but charges a single set of prices. Much like the CTC collections, this revenue stream is authorized by the legislature through the transition period. After the transition ends in 2006, ComEds bundled rates may be reset through a regulatory approval process, which may include traditional or innovative pricing, including performance based incentives to ComEd. In order to address post transition uncertainty, ComEd is constantly working with Illinois state and business community leadership to facilitate the development of a competitive electricity market while providing system reliability. This is particularly important as ComEds costs to provide electricity to bundled residential and small commercial customers are capped by law at 110% of market. Transparent and liquid markets will help to minimize litigation over electricity prices and provide consumers assurance of equitable pricing. At the same time, ComEd is attempting to establish a regulatory framework for the post 2006 timeframe. To offset CTC revenue loss after 2006, ComEd is pursuing measures that would provide greater productivity, quality and innovation in the work practices across Exelon. Currently, it is difficult to predict the outcome of a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates after 2006. Management believes that no one factor will solve the 2007 challenge, but that some combination of the components currently being worked on, together with other things Exelon and ComEd will do over the next four years, will address the 2007 challenge. The ability to successfully manage the end of the transition period may affect ComEds capital structure. ComEd has approximately $4.9 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2002. This goodwill was recognized and recorded in connection with the Merger. Under GAAP, the goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an analysis of ComEds cash flows. If an impairment is determined at ComEd, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed at ComEd. Presently, ComEd has sufficient cash flows to support the recorded amount of goodwill and thus, no impairment has been recorded. For a further discussion of this subject, see the Goodwill discussion within ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting 87 Estimates above. ComEds cash flows include CTCs, which will cease at the end of 2006, unless there is a legislative or regulatory change and collections from traditional bundled customers at tariffed rates. Absent another source of revenues, to replace the loss of CTC revenue, all or a portion of the goodwill may become impaired. ComEd currently believes that there are a number of alternatives that could provide cash flows to support the goodwill. Under current regulations, a significant goodwill impairment may restrict ComEds ability to pay dividends (see the Credit Issues section within Liquidity and Capital Resources above). ComEd is pursuing various solutions to address its ability to pay dividends if a significant goodwill impairment exists. However, based on Illinois legislation, goodwill impairments are excluded from determining whether or not the earnings cap amount has been met or exceeded (see the Equity return limitation discussion within Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business above). Weather affects electricity usage and, consequently, ComEds results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter of its fiscal year. However, extreme summer conditions or storms may stress ComEds transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting ComEds ability to bring power in to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds operations. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds service territory directly affect the demand for electricity. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds service territory directly affect the demand for electricity. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their use of energy. ComEds business plan reflects an increase in output growth of 1.5% per year on a weather normalized basis. However, there is continued economic uncertainty and ComEd is currently evaluating the impact of reduced economic activity on the 2003 growth rate. Recessionary economic conditions, and the associated reduced economic activity, may adversely affect ComEds results of operations. ComEds business is affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. The electric utility industry in the United States is in transition. As a result of both legislative initiatives as well as competitive pressures, the industry has been moving from a fully regulated industry, consisting primarily of vertically integrated companies that combine generation, transmission and distribution, to a partially restructured industry, consisting of competitive wholesale generation markets and continued regulation of transmission and distribution. These developments have been somewhat uneven across the states as a result of the reaction to the problems experienced in California in 2000 and the more recently publicized problems of some energy companies. Illinois has adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. A large number of states have not changed their regulatory structures. Regional Transmission Organizations / Standard Market Design. To facilitate wholesale competition in the electric industry, FERC has required jurisdictional utilities to provide open access to their transmission systems. To foster the development of large regional wholesale markets, FERC issued Order 2000, encouraging the development of regional transmission organizations (RTOs) and the elimination of trade barriers between regions. FERC has also proposed a rulemaking to mandate a standard market design (SMD) for the wholesale markets. Order 2000 and the proposed SMD rule contemplate that the jurisdictional transmission owners in a region will turn over operating authority over their transmission facilities to an RTO or other independent entity for the purpose of providing 88 open transmission access. As a result, the independent entity will become the provider of the transmission service and the transmission owners will recover their revenue requirements through the independent entity. The transmission owners will remain responsible for maintaining and physically operating their transmission facilities. The SMD rulemaking proposal would also requirethe independent entities to operate an organized bid based wholesale market for those who wish to sell their generation through the market and to implement a financially based system for dealing with congestion on transmission lines known as "locational marginal pricing" (LMP). FERC has also issued proposals to encourage RTO development, independent control of the transmission grid and expansion of the transmission grid by providing enhanced returns on equity for transmission assets. FERC Order 2000 has not led to the rapid development of RTOs and FERC has not yet finalized its SMD proposal, due in part to substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental officials. ComEd supports both of these proposals but cannot predict whether they will be successful, what impact they may ultimately have on ComEds transmission rates, revenues and operation of ComEds transmission facilities, or whether they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. To the extent that ComEd has POLR obligations, and may at some point no longer have long term supply contracts with Generation for its load, the ability of ComEd to cost effectively serve its POLR load obligation will depend on the development of such markets. Effective management of capital projects is important to ComEds business. ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities, and in other internal infrastructure projects. ComEd continues to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. ComEd expects that its capital expenditures will continue to exceed depreciation on its plant assets. ComEds base rate freeze will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2007 (see the Rate limitations discussion within Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business above). Capital Markets / Financing Environment In order to expand ComEds operations and to meet the needs of current and future customers, ComEd invests in its business. The ability to finance ComEds business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of ComEds operations and ComEds current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of ComEds liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. The ability to grow ComEds business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. ComEds business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, ComEd secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. ComEd actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Management currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, 89 maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in ComEd and Exelon, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. ComEds credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. ComEd has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require ComEd to incur higher financing costs. Equity market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans. If the markets continue to decline, Exelon may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with Exelons overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. Please refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the benefit plan assets. ComEds results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects ComEd through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the rate freezes imposed under the legislation in Illinois and price pressures due to competition, ComEd may not be able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other ComEd may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. ComEds business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which ComEd conducts its operations and make its capital expenditures. ComEd is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by ComEd and of property contaminated by hazardous substances ComEd generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, ComEd has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one source of such costs. Also, ComEd is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, ComEds reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $101 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. ComEd has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but ComEd cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover ComEds environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether ComEd will incur other significant 90 liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by ComEd, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. ComEds financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. In connection with the events of September 11, 2001, the electric industry has developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, FERC is expected to issue minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system control. These standards are expected to be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and ComEd is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. ComEd, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Exelon is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect ComEds results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect ComEds operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect ComEds operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect ComEds revenues or restrict ComEds future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect ComEds ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition in ComEds market. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on ComEds results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 91  PECO General On October 20, 2000, PECO became a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon as a result of the transactions relating to the Merger. During January 2001, Exelon undertook a restructuring to separate its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery business. As part of the restructuring, the non regulated operations and related assets and liabilities of PECO, representing the generation and enterprises business segments, were transferred to separate subsidiaries of Exelon. As a result, beginning January 2001, the operations of PECO consist of its retail electricity distribution and transmission business in southeastern Pennsylvania and its natural gas distribution business located in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. The estimated impact of the restructuring set forth herein reflects the effects of removing the generation and enterprises operations and obtaining energy and capacity from Generation under the terms of the PPA for the year ended December 31, 2000. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends PECO 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 4,333 $ 3,965 $ 368 9.3 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power 1,669 1,352 317 23.4 % Fuel 348 450 (102 ) (22.7 %) Operating and Maintenance 523 587 (64 ) (10.9 %) Depreciation and Amortization 456 416 40 9.6 % Taxes Other Than Income 244 161 83 51.6 % Total Operating Expense 3,240 2,966 274 9.2 % OPERATING INCOME 1,093 999 94 9.4 % OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (370 ) (413 ) 43 (10.4 %) Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership which holds Solely Subordinated Debentures of the Company (10 ) (10 ) Other, Net 32 46 (14 ) (30.4 %) Total Other Income and Deductions (348 ) (377 ) 29 (7.7 %) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 745 622 123 19.8 % INCOME TAXES 259 197 62 31.5 % NET INCOME 486 425 61 14.4 % Preferred Stock Dividends (8 ) (10 ) 2 (20.0 %) NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 478 $ 415 $ 63 15.2 % 92 Net Income Net income on common stock increased $63 million, or 15%, in 2002 as compared to 2001. The increase was a result of higher sales volume, favorable rate adjustments, lower operating and maintenance expense and lower interest expense on debt partially offset by increased taxes other than income and increased depreciation and amortization expense. Operating Revenue PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Deliveries(1) Residential 10,365 8,073 2,292 28.4 % Small Commercial & Industrial 7,606 5,998 1,608 26.8 % Large Commercial & Industrial 14,766 12,960 1,806 13.9 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 852 765 87 11.4 % 33,589 27,796 5,793 20.8 % Unbundled Deliveries(2) Residential 1,971 3,105 (1,134 ) (36.5 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 415 1,606 (1,191 ) (74.2 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 557 2,352 (1,795 ) (76.3 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 7 (7 ) (100.0 %) 2,943 7,070 (4,127 ) (58.4 %) Total Retail Deliveries 36,532 34,866 1,666 4.8 % (1)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Revenue(1) Residential $ 1,338 $ 1,028 $ 310 30.2 % Small Commercial & Industrial 865 682 183 26.8 % Large Commercial & Industrial 1,086 929 157 16.9 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 79 72 7 9.7 % 3,368 2,711 657 24.2 % Unbundled Revenue(2) Residential 145 235 (90 ) (38.3 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 21 81 (60 ) (74.1 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 16 64 (48 ) (75.0 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 1 (1 ) (100.0 %) 182 381 (199 ) (52.2 %) Total Electric Retail Revenues 3,550 3,092 458 14.8 % Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 234 219 15 6.8 % Total Electric Revenue $ 3,784 $ 3,311 $ 473 14.3 % (1)Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2)Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative supplier, which include a distribution charge and a CTC charge. 93 (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer Choice $ 226 Volume 133 Weather 63 Rate Changes 45 Other Effects (9 ) Electric Retail Revenue $ 458 Customer Choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers. This choice generally does not impact kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. As of December 31, 2002, the customer load served by alternative suppliers was 1,002 MW or 12.8% as compared to 1,003 MW or 13.0% as of December 31, 2001. The percent of PECOs total retail deliveries for which PECO was electric supplier was 92.0% in 2002, compared to 79.8% in 2001. As of December 31, 2002, the number of customers served by alternative suppliers was 277,805 or 18.2% as compared to December 31, 2001 of 371,500 or 24.4%. The increases in customers and the percentage of load served by PECO primarily resulted from customers selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased PECOs revenue $133 million compared to 2001, primarily related to increases in the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Weather. The weather impact was favorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer summer weather. Cooling degree days increased 15% in 2002 compared to 2001. Heating degree days increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Rate Changes. The increase in revenues attributable to rate changes primarily reflects the expiration of a 6% reduction in PECOs electric rates during the first quarter of 2001 and a $50 million increase as a result of the increase in the gross receipts tax rate effective January 1, 2002. These increases are partially offset by the timing of a $60 million rate reduction in effect for 2001 and 2002. As permitted by the Pennsylvania Electric Act, the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue has calculated a 2002 Revenue Neutral Reconciliation (RNR) adjustment to gross receipts tax rate in order to neutralize the impact of electric restructuring on its tax revenues. In January 2002, the PUC approved the RNR adjustment to the gross receipts tax rate collected from customers. Effective January 1, 2002, PECO implemented the change in the gross receipts tax rate. The RNR adjustment increases the gross receipts tax rate, which increased both PECOs annual revenues and tax obligations by approximately $50 million in 2002. The RNR adjustment was under appeal. The case was remanded to the PUC and in August 2002, the PUC ruled that PECO is properly authorized to recover these costs. In December 2002, the PUC approved the inclusion of the RNR factor in PECOs base rates eliminating the need for an annual filing to obtain approval for recovery. Other Effects. Other items affecting revenue include an $11 million settlement of CTCs by a large customer in the first quarter of 2001. 94 PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: 2002 2001 Variance Deliveries in millions of cubic feet (mmcf) 85,545 81,528 4,017 Revenue $ 549 $ 654 $ (105 ) The changes in gas revenue for 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate Changes $ (108 ) Weather 2 Volume 1 Gas Revenue $ (105 ) Rate Changes. The unfavorable variance in rates is attributable to an adjustment of the purchased gas cost recovery by the PUC in December 2001. The average rate per million cubic feet for 2002 was 20% lower than in 2001. PECOs gas rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC and are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in base rates and to recover or refund increases or decreases in certain state taxes not recovered in base rates. Effective December 1, 2002, the PUC approved a reduction in the purchased gas adjustment of 4.5%. Weather. The weather impact was favorable, as a result of colder weather in 2002, as compared to 2001. Heating degree days in PECOs service territory increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased revenue by $1 million in 2002 compared to 2001. Total deliveries to customers increased 5% in 2002 compared to 2001, primarily as a result of customer growth and higher transportation volumes Purchased Power Purchased power expense in 2002 increased $317 million as compared to 2001. The increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to $210 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier, higher PJM ancillary charges of $41 million, $38 million from higher delivery volume primarily related to electric sales and $28 million as a result of favorable weather conditions. Fuel Fuel expense in 2002 decreased $102 million as compared to 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to a $108 million decrease from lower gas prices. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense in 2002 decreased $64 million, or 11%, as compared to 2001. The decrease in O&M expense was primarily attributable to a $23 million reduction in the allowance for the uncollectible accounts during 2002, and $6 million related to lower corporate allocations. The decrease is also attributable to $18 million of employee severance costs associated with the Merger, $12 million of incremental costs related to two storms, $7 million attributable to customer choice and $5 million associated with a write off of excess and obsolete inventory, all of which occurred in 2001. These decreases are partially offset by $12 million related to additional costs associated with the deployment of automated meter reading technology during 2002. 95 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense in 2002 increased $40 million, or 10%, as compared to 2001 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Competitive Transition Charge Amortization $ 308 $ 271 $ 37 13.7 % Depreciation Expense 125 119 6 5.0 % Other Amortization Expense 23 26 (3 ) (11.5 %) Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 456 $ 416 $ 40 9.6 % The increase was primarily attributable to $37 million of additional amortization of PECOs CTC and an increase of $6 million related to depreciation expense associated with additional plant in service. The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income in 2002 increased $83 million, or 52%, as compared to 2001. The increase was primarily attributable to $72 million of additional gross receipts tax related to additional revenues and an increase in the gross receipts tax rate on electric revenue effective January 1, 2002. The increase was also attributable to $15 million related to an additional assessment of real estate taxes in 2002. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $4 million for state sales and use tax in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership (COMRPS). Interest charges decreased $43 million, or 10%, in 2002 as compared to 2001. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower interest expense on long term debt of $35 million as a result of less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates, and $8 million in interest expense on a loan from ComEd in 2001. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions excluding interest charges decreased $14 million, or 30%, in, 2002 as compared to 2001. The decrease in other income and deductions was primarily attributable to intercompany interest income of $10 million, a gain on the settlement of an interest rate swap of $6 million and the favorable settlement of a customer contract of $3 million, all of which occurred in 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 34.8% in 2002 as compared to 31.7% in 2001. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to an unfavorable tax adjustments recorded in 2002. Preferred Stock Dividends Preferred stock dividends in 2002 were consistent as compared to 2001. 96 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2000 Summary Financial Information PECO Components of Variance 2001 2000 Restructuring Impact Normal Operations Total OPERATING REVENUES $ 3,965 $ 5,950 $ (2,577 ) $ 592 $ (1,985 ) Purchased Power and Fuel 1,802 2,127 (793 ) 468 (325 ) Operating and Maintenance 587 1,791 (1,299 ) 95 (1,204 ) Merger Related Costs 248 (181 ) (67 ) (248 ) Depreciation and Amortization 416 325 (142 ) 233 91 Taxes Other Than Income 161 237 (71 ) (5 ) (76 ) Total Operating Expenses 2,966 4,728 (2,486 ) 724 (1,762 ) OPERATING INCOME 999 1,222 (91 ) (132 ) (223 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (413 ) (463 ) 48 2 50 Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership, which holds Solely Subordinated Debentures of the Company (10 ) (8 ) (2 ) (2 ) Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net (41 ) 41 41 Other, Net 46 41 (19 ) 24 5 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 622 751 (21 ) (108 ) (129 ) INCOME TAXES 197 268 26 (97 ) (71 ) NET INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 425 483 (47 ) (11 ) (58 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE (net of income taxes) 24 (24 ) (24 ) NET INCOME 425 507 (71 ) (11 ) (82 ) PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS (10 ) (10 ) NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 415 $ 497 $ (71 ) $ (11 ) $ (82 ) Net Income Net income from normal operations decreased $11 million, or 3% in 2001 as compared to 2000. PECOs results from normal operations improved as a result of lower margins due to the unplanned return of certain commercial and industrial customers, milder weather, increased depreciation and amortization expense and higher interest expense partially offset by favorable rate adjustments. 97 Operating Revenues PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2001 2000 Variance % Change Bundled Deliveries(1) Residential 8,073 9,325 (1,252 ) (13.4 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 5,998 3,918 2,080 53.1 % Large Commercial & Industrial 12,960 8,292 4,668 56.3 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 765 479 286 59.7 % 27,796 22,014 5,782 26.3 % Unbundled Deliveries(2) Residential 3,105 1,986 1,119 56.3 % Small Commercial & Industrial 1,606 3,550 (1,944 ) (54.8 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 2,352 7,404 (5,052 ) (68.2 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 7 301 (294 ) (97.7 %) 7,070 13,241 (6,171 ) (46.6 %) Total Retail Deliveries 34,866 35,255 (389 ) (1.1 %) (1)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. Electric Revenue 2001 2000 Variance % Change Bundled Revenue(1) Residential $ 1,028 $ 1,113 $ (85 ) (7.6 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 682 422 260 61.6 % Large Commercial & Industrial 929 532 397 74.6 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 72 47 25 53.2 % 2,711 2,114 597 28.2 % Unbundled Revenue(2) Residential 235 135 100 74.1 % Small Commercial & Industrial 81 154 (73 ) (47.4 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 64 180 (116 ) (64.4 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 1 11 (10 ) (90.9 %) 381 480 (99 ) (20.6 %) Total Electric Retail Revenues 3,092 2,594 498 19.2 % Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 219 247 (28 ) (11.3 %) Total Electric Revenue $ 3,311 $ 2,841 $ 470 16.5 % (1)Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2)Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative energy supplier, which include a distribution charge and a CTC charge. 98 (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues for 2001, as compared to 2000, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer Choice $ 276 Rate Changes 241 Weather (5 ) Other Effects (14 ) Retail Revenue $ 498 Customer Choice. All PECO customers had the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers throughout 2001. This choice generally does not impact kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. Customers who are served by an alternative supplier continue to pay CTCs. As of December 31, 2001, the customer load served by alternative suppliers was 1,003 MWs or 13.0% as compared to the same prior year period of 2,631 MWs or 34.9%. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the percent of load sold by PECO increased by 17.2% to 79.8% of total retail deliveries as compared to 62.6% in 2000. This reduction in the customers and the percentage of load served by alternative suppliers, primarily resulted from small and large commercial and industrial customers selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier. As of December 31, 2001, the number of customers served by alternative suppliers was 371,500 or 24.4% as compared to December 31, 2000 of 269,395 or 18.0%. The increase from the prior year is primarily a result of the CDS agreements for residential customers with the New Power and Green Mountain. As of December 31, 2001, there were 227,349 residential customers assigned to these generation providers as part of the agreement. Rate Changes. The increase in revenues attributable to rate changes reflects the expiration of a 6% reduction in PECOs electric rates in effect for 2000, partially offset by a $60 million rate reduction in effect for 2001. Weather. The weather impact was unfavorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer winter weather partially offset by warmer summer weather. Cooling degree days increased 34% in 2001 compared to 2000 while heating degree days decreased 12% in 2001 compared to 2000. Other Effects. Other items affecting revenue during 2001 include: Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, lower delivery volume affected PECOs revenue by $21 million compared to 2000 primarily related to increases in the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Other. The payment of $29 million to Generation related to nuclear decommissioning cost recovery under an agreement effective September 2001 partially offset by an $11 million settlement of CTCs by a large customer in the first quarter of 2001. PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: 2001 2000 Variance Deliveries in mmcf 81,528 91,686 (10,158 ) Revenue $ 654 $ 532 $ 122 99 The changes in gas revenue for 2001, as compared to 2000, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate Changes $ 174 Weather (38 ) Volume (14 ) Gas Revenue $ 122 Rate Changes. The favorable variance in price is attributable to an adjustment of the purchased gas cost recovery by the PUC effective in December 2000. The average price per million cubic feet for all customers for 2001 was 38% higher than in 2000. Weather. The unfavorable weather impact is attributable to warmer winter weather conditions. Heating degree days decreased 12% in 2001 compared to 2000. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, lower delivery volume affected revenue by $14 million compared to 2000. Total volume of sales to retail customers decreased 11% compared to 2000, primarily as a result of slower economic conditions in 2001 offset by customer growth. Purchased Power and Fuel Purchased power and fuel expense for 2001 increased $468 million, or 35%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense was primarily attributable to $293 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier, $174 million from increased prices related to gas and higher PJM ancillary charges of $31 million. These increases were partially offset by $24 million as a result of unfavorable weather conditions and $14 million attributable to lower delivery volume related to gas. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense for 2001 increased $95 million, or 19%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase in O&M expense was primarily attributable to $20 million related to an increased allocation of corporate expense, $18 million related to additional employee severance costs in 2001 associated with the Merger, $17 million as a result of higher administrative and general costs for functions previously performed at Corporate, $14 million related to the deployment of automated meter reading technology during 2001, $12 million of incremental costs related to two storms in 2001, $9 million related to additional uncollectible accounts expense and $5 million associated with the write off of excess and obsolete inventory. Merger Related Costs Merger related costs charged to income in 2000 were $248 million consisting of $132 million of direct incremental costs and $116 million for employee costs. Direct incremental costs represent expenses associated with completing the Merger, including professional fees, regulatory approval and settlement costs, and settlement of compensation arrangements. Employee costs represent estimated severance payments and pension and postretirement benefits provided under Exelons merger separation plan for 642 eligible PECO employees who were expected to be involuntarily terminated before December 2002 upon completion of integration activities for the merged companies. Merger related costs attributable to the operations transferred to Generation, Enterprises and BSC in the corporate restructuring were $181 million. The remaining $67 million is attributable to PECOs energy delivery segment. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 100 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense for 2001 increased $233 million, or 127%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase was primarily attributable to $214 million of additional amortization of PECOs CTC and an increase of $19 million related to depreciation expense associated with additional plant in service. The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income for 2001 decreased $5 million, or 3%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The decrease was primarily attributable to the elimination of the gross receipts tax on gas sales effective July 1, 2000. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on COMRPS. Interest charges for 2001 were consistent as compared to 2000. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates As part of the corporate restructuring, PECOs unconsolidated affiliates were transferred to Generation and Enterprises. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions excluding interest charges and equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates increased $24 million, or 109% in 2001 as compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase in other income and deductions was primarily attributable to intercompany interest income of $10 million in the third quarter of 2001, a gain on the settlement of an interest rate swap of $6 million and the favorable settlement of a customer contract of $3 million. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 31.7% in 2001 as compared to 35.7% in 2000. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to tax benefits associated with the implementation of state tax planning strategies, the reduced impact of investment tax credit amortization and other tax adjustments recorded in 2001. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle In 2000, PECO recorded a benefit of $40 million ($24 million, net of tax) representing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting method for nuclear outage costs in conjunction with the synchronization of accounting policies in connection with the Merger. Preferred Stock Dividends Preferred stock dividends for 2001 were consistent as compared to 2000. 101  Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing including the issuance of commercial paper. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt and payment of dividends. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations in 2002 were $880 million compared to $938 million in 2001. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities was primarily attributable to a $79 million decrease in other operating activities primarily a result of the change in pension obligation, a $26 million decrease in working capital, a $26 million decrease in deferred income taxes and a $23 million decrease in the provision for uncollectible accounts, partially offset by a $61 million increase in net income and a $37 million increase in CTC amortization. PECOs cash flow from operating activities primarily results from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices. PECOs future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve operating cost reductions, and the impact of the economy, weather and customer choice on its revenues. Although the amounts may vary from period to period as a result of the uncertainties inherent in its business, PECO expects that it will continue to provide a reliable and steady source of internal cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. PECO participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however Exelon made a $150 million discretionary plan contribution in 2002, none of which was funded by PECO. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary plan contribution of $300 million to $350 million in 2003. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities in 2002 were $252 million compared to $241 million in 2001. The increase in cash flows used in investing activities was primarily attributable to an increase in capital expenditures. PECOs investing activities during 2002 were funded primarily by operating activities. PECOs projected capital expenditures for 2003 are $270 million. Approximately one half of the budgeted 2003 expenditures are for capital additions to support customer and load growth and the remainder for additions and upgrades to existing facilities. PECO anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2002 were $597 million compared to $683 million in 2001. Cash flows used in financing activities are primarily attributable to debt service and payment of dividends to Exelon. In 2002, PECO issued $225 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds. The proceeds of these bonds were used to repay commercial paper that PECO used to pay $222 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at maturity. Also in 2002, PECO made principal payments of $326 million on transition bonds and had net issuances of $200 million of commercial paper. PECO paid a $340 million dividend to Exelon during 2002 compared to a $342 million dividend in 2001. 102 Credit Issues PECO meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. PECO, along with Exelon, ComEd and Generation, participates in a $1.5 billion unsecured 364 day revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The credit facility became effective November 22, 2002 and includes a term out option that allows any outstanding borrowings at the end of the revolving credit period to be repaid on November 21, 2004. Exelon may increase or decrease the sublimits of each of the participants upon written notification to the banks. As of December 31, 2002, PECOs sublimit was $400 million. The credit facility is used by PECO principally to support its commercial paper program. At December 31, 2002, PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects $200 million in commercial paper outstanding. For 2002, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.51%. Certain of the credit agreements to which PECO is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. PECOs threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, PECO was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. At December 31, 2002, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.8 billion receivable from Exelon, consisted of 28% common stock, 2% notes payable, 3% preferred securities and COMRPS, and 67% long term debt. Long term debt included $4.3 billion of transition bonds issued by PECO Energy Transition Trust representing 50% of capitalization. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany utility money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether such funding results in mutual economic benefits to each of the participants, although Exelon is not permitted to be a net borrower from the money pool. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. There were no material money pool transactions in 2002. PECOs access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. None of PECOs borrowings are subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows PECOs securities ratings at December 31, 2002: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings PECO Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Under PUHCA, PECO is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon and can pay dividends only from retained or current earnings. At December 31, 2002, PECO had retained earnings of $401 million. 103 Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations PECOs contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 5,644 $ 689 $ 883 $ 1,141 $ 2,931 Notes Payable 200 200 COMRPS 128 128 Operating Leases 20 5 7 5 3 Total Contractual Obligations $ 5,992 $ 894 $ 890 $ 1,146 $ 3,062 See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt see Note 11 notes payable see Note 10 COMRPS see Note 15 operating leases see Note 18 PECOs commercial commitments as of December 31, 2002 representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, including obligations to make payment on behalf of other parties as well as financing arrangements to secure obligations of PECO, are as follows: Expiration within After 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Credit Facility(a) $ 400 $ 400 $ $ $ Letters of Credit (non debt)(b) 29 29 Letter of Credit (Long term Debt)(c) 17 17 Insured Long Term Debt(d) 154 154 Surety Bonds(e) 46 46 Total Commercial Commitments $ 646 $ 492 $ $ $ 154 (a)Credit Facility PECO, along with Exelon, ComEd and Generation, maintain a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility to support commercial paper issuances. PECO has a $400 million sublimit under the credit facility. At December 31, 2002, there are no borrowings against the credit facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, PECO had $200 million in outstanding commercial paper. (b)Letters of Credit (non debt) PECO and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (c)Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt) Direct pay letters of credit issued in connection with variable rate debt in order to provide liquidity in the event that it is not possible to remarket all of the debt as required following specific events, including changes in the basis of determining the interest rate on the debt. (d)Insured Long Term Debt Borrowings that have been credit enhanced through the purchase of insurance coverage equal to the amount of principal outstanding plus interest. 104 (e)Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial surety bonds, excluding bid bonds. Off Balance Sheet Obligations PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2005. PECO entered into this agreement to diversify its funding sources at favorable floating interest rates. At December 31, 2002, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $164 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125," and a $61 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable which was accounted for as a long term note payable. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for these receivables. The Agreement requires PECO to maintain the $225 million interest, which, if not met, requires cash, which would otherwise be received by PECO under this program, to be held in escrow until the requirement is met. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PECO met this requirement. Critical Accounting Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business PECO faces a number of challenges in achieving its vision and keeping its commitments to its customers and investors. These challenges that will affect how PECO manages its business are described below. PECO must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing its business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. PECO is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. PECO is regulated by the PUC, which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between PECO and its affiliates. PECO is also subject to regulation by FERC, which regulates transmission rates, certain other aspects of its business and gas pipelines. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which PECO does business, its ability to undertake specified actions and the costs of its operations. PECO is involved in a number of regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of PECOs costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, PECO looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grant some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. 105 PECO must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Each year, increases in both customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues, and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. PECO must manage its costs due to the rate caps imposed on PECO. Rate caps in effect at PECO currently limit PECOs ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. PECO is subject to agreed upon rate reductions of $200 million, in aggregate, for the period 2002 through 2005 and caps (subject to limited exceptions for significant increases in Federal or state income taxes or other significant changes in law or regulation that do not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return) on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 as a result of settlements previously reached with the PUC. As a result, PECOs future results of operations will depend on the ability of PECO to deliver electricity and natural gas, in a cost efficient manner, and to realize cost reductions to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. PECO has lost and will lose energy customers to other generation service providers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of PECO will vary because of customer choice of generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Pennsylvania, all of PECOs retail electric customers can choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative suppliers. If customers do not choose an alternative generation supplier PECO, is currently generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in its service territory at fixed rates. In addition, customers who choose an alternative generation supplier may later return to PECO. PECO remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation supplier. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation provider, PECOs revenues are likely to decline. At December 31, 2002, approximately 10% of PECOs small C&I load, 7% of its large C&I load and 21% of its residential load were purchasing their generation service from an alternative electric generation supplier. PECOs Electric Restructuring Settlement established MST for residential and commercial customers such that if, on January 1, 2003, 50% of PECOs residential and commercial customers (by number of customers for residential and small commercial classes, and by load for large commercial classes) are not obtaining generation service from alternative generation suppliers, then non shopping customers, up to the MSTs level, will be randomly assigned to alternative generation suppliers. The assigned customers have the right, at any time, to return to PECO or to switch to another supplier. The number of customers choosing alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that PECO is authorized to charge by the PUC. 106 PECO continues to serve as the POLR for energy for all customers in its service territory. PECO is required to make available generation service to all retail customers in its service territory, including customers that have taken energy from an alternative generation supplier. PECO customers can "switch," that is, they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to PECO and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on, within limits. Because customers can switch, planning for PECO has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. Presently, PECO manages the POLR obligation through a full requirements contract with Generation, under which Generation supplies PECOs power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of PECO load that Generation must prepare for. PECOs long term PPA provides a hedge to its customers demand. Because the bundled rates PECO charges its customers are capped through 2010, as mentioned previously in the "Rate limitations" section, its ability to recover increased costs with increases in rates charged to these customers is limited. Therefore, to effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, PECO has established power supply agreements with Generation that reduce exposure to the volatility of market prices through 2010. Market prices relative to PECOs bundled rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. PECOs business may be significantly impacted by the end of the PECO regulatory transition period in 2010. In Pennsylvania, as a mechanism for utilities to recover their allowed stranded costs, the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act) provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customers bills. CTCs are assessed to and collected from all customers who have been assigned stranded cost responsibility and access the utilities transmission and distribution systems. As the CTCs are based on access to the utilitys transmission and distribution system, they are assessed regardless of whether such customer purchases electricity from the utility or an alternative electric generation supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that the utilitys right to collect CTCs is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs are being recovered, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. PECO has been authorized by the PUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion ($4.6 billion of unamortized costs at December 31, 2002) over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. PECOs recovery of stranded costs is based on the level of transition charges established in the settlement of PECOs restructuring case and the projected annual retail sales in PECOs service territory. Recovery of transition charges for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. In 2002, revenue attributable to stranded cost recovery was $850 million and is scheduled to increase to $932 million by 2010, the final year of stranded cost recovery. Amortization of PECOs stranded cost recovery, which is a regulatory asset, is included in depreciation and amortization. The amortization expense for 2002 was $308 million and will increase to $879 million by 2010. Thus, PECOs results will be adversely affected over the remaining period ending December 31, 2010 by the reduction in the unamortized balance of stranded costs and therefore the return received on that unamortized balance. Weather affects electricity and gas usage and, consequently, PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing 107 differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, PECO typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter. Extreme summer conditions or storms may stress PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting its ability to bring power in to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on PECOs operations. Economic conditions and activity in PECOs service territory directly affect the demand for electricity. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their use of energy. Sales growth on an annual basis is expected to be 0.6% in PECOs service territory. In the long term, output growth for electricity is expected to be 0.6% per year. However, there is continued economic uncertainty. Recessionary economic conditions, and the associated reduced economic activity, may adversely affect PECOs results of operations. Effective management of capital projects is important to PECOs business. PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities, and in other internal infrastructure projects. PECO continues to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. PECOs base rate caps will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any of these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2011 (see the section titled "PECO must manage its costs due to the rate caps imposed on PECO" above). Capital Markets / Financing Environment In order to expand PECOs operations and to meet the needs of its current and future customers, PECO invests in its business. PECOs ability to finance its business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of its operations and PECOs current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of PECOs liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. PECOs ability to grow its business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. PECOs business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, PECO secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. PECO actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. PECO currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund its operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the need arises. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in PECO and Exelon, general economic and capital market conditions and the success of current projects. 108 PECOs credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. PECO has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require PECO to incur higher financing costs. Equity market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans. If the markets continue to decline, PECO may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with its overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. Please refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the benefit plan assets. PECOs results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects PECO through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the rate caps imposed under the legislation in Pennsylvania, PECO is not able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other PECO may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. PECOs business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which PECO conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. PECO is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by PECO and of property contaminated by hazardous substances PECO generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, PECO has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations will be one source of such costs. Also, PECO is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, PECOs reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $40 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. PECO has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but PECO cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover PECOs environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether PECO will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by PECO, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. PECOs financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. In connection with the events of September 11, 2001, the electric and gas industries have developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, FERC issued minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system 109 control. These standards will be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. The gas industry, through the American Gas Association, developed physical security guidelines that were accepted by the U.S. Department of Transportation. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and PECO is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. PECO, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Exelon is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect PECOs results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect PECOs operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect PECOs operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect PECOs revenues or restrict PECOs future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect PECOs ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within PECOs markets. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse affect on PECOs results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 110  Generation General On October 20, 2000, Exelon became the parent corporation for PECO and ComEd as a result of the completion of the transactions related to the Merger. Generation has included the ComEds generation related results of operations in its consolidated financial statements beginning October 20, 2000. The estimated impact of the Merger set forth herein reflects the effects ComEds generation related results of operations prior to October 20, 2000. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends Generation 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 32 0.5 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power 3,294 3,106 188 6.1 % Fuel 959 889 70 7.9 % Operating and Maintenance 1,656 1,528 128 8.4 % Depreciation 276 282 (6 ) (2.1 )% Taxes Other Than Income 164 149 15 10.1 % Total Operating Expense 6,349 5,954 395 6.6 % OPERATING INCOME 509 872 (363 ) (41.6 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (75 ) (115 ) 40 34.8 % Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net 87 90 (3 ) (3.3 )% Other, Net 83 (8 ) 91 n.m. Total Other Income and Deductions 95 (33 ) 128 n.m. INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 604 839 (235 ) (28.0 )% INCOME TAXES 217 327 (110 ) (33.6 )% INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 387 512 (125 ) (24.4 )% CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES, (net of income taxes) 13 12 1 8.3 % NET INCOME $ 400 $ 524 $ (124 ) (23.7 )% Net Income Generations net income decreased by $124 million, or 24% in 2002. Net income was adversely impacted by a lower margin on wholesale energy sales due to depressed market prices for energy, a reduced supply of low cost nuclear generation, and increased operating and maintenance expense. The decrease was partially offset by increased revenue from the acquisition of two generating plants in April 2002, increased investment income, decreased depreciation expense and decreased interest expense. 111 Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased $32 million, or 1% in 2002. Sales to affiliates increased by $124 million. This increase was attributable to weather related increased deliveries to PECO and ComEd. Revenue from marketing and trading decreased by $143 million, which was due to lower market prices on sales and losses sustained from proprietary trading activity. Market sales were negatively impacted by lower average market sales prices of $6.25/MWh. Excluding the benefit of $99 million of margin associated with the Texas plants acquisition, average market prices realized for the year ended December 31, 2002 were $7.44/MWh lower than the same 2001 period. The effect of the lower sales prices were partially offset by increased market sales volumes. Trading margin decreased $36 million, reflecting a $29 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to a $7 million gain in the same 2001 period. Purchased Power Purchased power expense increased $188 million, or 6% in 2002. This increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a 15.8% increase in purchased power volume. This was partially offset by average purchased power cost decreasing by $4.11/MWh for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to the same 2001 period. This decrease in average purchased power cost was principally attributed to lower realized wholesale market prices realized and reduced transmission costs. Fuel Fuel expense increased $70 million in 2002. The increase was principally attributed to increased fossil fuel purchases related to new plant acquisitions in Texas and New England, as well as increased peaking production due to summer demand. Operating Statistics For the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, Generations sales and the supply of these sales, excluding the trading portfolio, were as follows: Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Energy Delivery 118,473 116,917 1.3 % Exelon Energy 5,502 6,876 (20.0 )% Market Sales 83,565 72,333 15.5 % Total Sales 207,540 196,126 5.8 % Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Nuclear Generation (1) 115,854 116,839 (0.8 )% Purchases non trading portfolio (2) 78,710 67,942 15.8 % Fossil and Hydro Generation 12,976 11,345 14.4 % Total Supply 207,540 196,126 5.8 % (1)Excluding AmerGen. (2)Including PPAs with AmerGen. 112 Trading volume of 69,933 GWhs and 5,754 GWhs for the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, is not included in the table above. Generations average revenue, supply cost, and margin on energy sales for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2002 2001 % Change Average Revenue Energy Delivery $ 33.48 $ 32.55 2.9 % Exelon Energy 44.87 41.53 8.0 % Market Sales 30.75 37.00 (16.9 )% Total excluding the trading portfolio 32.68 34.51 (5.3 )% Average Supply Cost (1) excluding trading portfolio $ 20.14 $ 20.26 (0.6 )% Average Margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 12.54 $ 14.25 (12.0 )% (1)Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs. 2002 2001 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (1) 92.7 % 94.4 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh $ 13.00 $ 12.78 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 41.83 $ 45.94 (1)Including AmerGen and excluding Salem. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense increased $128 million, or 9%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to the same period in 2001. The increase was due to the additional O&M expense of $80 million arising from an increased number of nuclear plant refueling outages during 2002 compared to 2001. Also, O&M expense increased $21 million due to plants acquired in 2002, as well as additional allocated corporate costs, including executive severance. These additional expenses were partially offset by other operating cost reductions, including $8 million related to fewer employees, a $10 million reduction in Generations severance accrual and other cost reductions from Exelons Cost Management Initiative. The severance reduction represents a reversal of costs previously charged to operating expense. Depreciation Depreciation expense decreased $6 million, or 2%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to 2001. This decrease is due to a $42 million reduction in depreciation expense arising from the extension of the useful lives on certain generation facilities in 2001, partially offset by $32 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service, including the Southeast Chicago Energy Project in July 2002, and two generating plants acquired in April 2002. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased $15 million, or 10%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to the same period in 2001 due primarily to an $8 million increase in property taxes. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $40 million, or 35%, for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to the same period in 2001. The decrease is due to $19 million of lower interest related to a lower interest rate on the spent nuclear fuel obligation, and $33 million of lower affiliate interest expense. This decrease was partially offset by a $21 million increase in interest expense due to newly acquired long term debt. 113 Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased $3 million, or 3%, in 2002 compared to 2001. This decrease was due to a $5 million decrease in Generations equity earnings in AmerGen, primarily due to an increase in pension, medical, and incentive cost, partially offset by an increase in revenue. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $2 million in Generations equity earnings in Sithe. Other, Net Other, Net increased $91 million in 2002, compared to 2001. The increase was primarily due to a $103 million increase in decommissioning trust fund investment income, partially offset by a $6 million decrease in affiliate interest income, and a $6 million decrease due to losses on the disposal and retirement of Generation assets. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 35.9% for 2002 compared to 39.0% for 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to tax exempt interest deductions in 2002 and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2002, Generation adopted SFAS No. 141 resulting in a benefit of $13 million (net of income taxes of $9 million). On January 1, 2001, Generation adopted SFAS No. 133, as amended, resulting in a benefit of $12 million (net of income taxes of $7 million). Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 The October 20, 2000 merger of PECO and Unicom, and the January 1, 2001 corporate restructuring, significantly impacted Generations results of operations. To provide a more meaningful analysis of results of operations, the financial analysis below identifies the portion of the components of net income variance that is attributable to the former ComEd generation business unit results of operations and the portion of the variance that results from normal operations attributable to changes in Generations underlying operations. The merger variance represents the former ComEd generation business unit results for the year ended December 31, 2000 prior to the October 20, 2000 acquisition date as well as the effect of merger related costs incurred in 2000. The 2000 effects of the merger and 114 restructuring were developed using estimates of various items, including allocation of corporate overheads and intercompany transactions. Components of Variance Generation 2001 2000 Variance Merger Variance Normal Operations OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,826 $ 3,274 $ 3,552 $ 2,772 $ 780 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power and Fuel 3,995 1,846 2,149 1,690 459 Operating & Maintenance 1,528 800 728 868 (140 ) Depreciation 282 123 159 83 76 Taxes Other Than Income 149 64 85 108 (23 ) Total Operating Expenses 5,954 2,833 3,121 2,749 372 OPERATING INCOME 872 441 431 23 408 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (115 ) (41 ) (74 ) (33 ) (41 ) Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net 90 4 86 86 Other, Net (8 ) 16 (24 ) (24 ) Total Other Income and Deductions (33 ) (21 ) (12 ) (33 ) 21 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECTS OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 839 420 419 (10 ) 429 INCOME TAXES 327 160 167 (9 ) 176 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECTS OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 512 260 252 (1 ) 253 CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (net of income taxes) 12 12 12 NET INCOME $ 524 $ 260 $ 264 $ (1 ) $ 265 Net Income Generations net income increased $265 million for 2001, compared to 2000 excluding the effects of the Merger. This increase was primarily attributable to higher margins on increased market and affiliate wholesale energy sales, coupled with reduced operating expenses at the nuclear plants, partially offset by additional depreciation and decommissioning expense. Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased $780 million for 2001, compared to 2000 excluding the effects of the Merger. Operating revenue increased due to higher market prices for energy. The increase in wholesale market prices, particularly in the PJM and MAIN regions, was conversely affected by higher fossil fuel prices. In addition, 2001 energy marketing activity resulted in mark to market gains of $16 million on non trading contracts, and $14 million on trading contracts. This was partially offset by $6 million in realized trading losses. Purchased Power and Fuel Purchased power and fuel costs increased $459 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. This increase was due to increased fuel prices in the first quarter of 2001 115 compared to the same period in the prior year. Also, Generation experienced an increase in volume sold during the peak demand season in 2001 compared to 2000. Operating and Maintenance O&M expenses decreased $140 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. O&M expenses were favorably affected by reductions in labor costs due to a decline in the number of employees and fewer nuclear outages in 2001 than in 2000, which offset the effect of increases in litigation related expenses of $30 million. Depreciation Depreciation expense increased $76 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. The increase in depreciation expense was primarily due to an increase in decommissioning expense of $140 million resulting from the discontinuance of regulatory accounting practices associated with decommissioning costs for the former ComEd operating nuclear generating stations, partially offset by a $90 million reduction in depreciation and decommissioning expense attributable to the extension of estimated service lives of generating plants. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income taxes decreased $23 million for 2001, compared to 2000. Taxes other than income taxes decreased as a result of a reduction in payroll taxes due to a decline in the number of employees and a reduction in property taxes due to property value reassessments. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $41 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. This increase was primarily attributable to increased interest charges of $23 million on the note payable to Exelon, interest charges of $26 million due to the issuance of $700 million of 6.95% senior unsecured notes in a 144A offering in June 2001, $23 million of additional interest due to a full year of interest charges on the spent fuel obligation compared to only two months in 2000 for the former ComEd generating stations, and $15 million of interest charges from affiliates. These increases were partially offset by capitalized interest of approximately $17 million. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $86 million for 2001, compared to 2000. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased primarily due to additional earnings of AmerGen and Sithe of $86 million in 2001 reflecting a full year of operations for Sithe and AmerGens Oyster Creek plant in 2001. Other, Net Other, Net decreased $24 million for 2001, compared to 2000. Investment income decreased by $29 million due to net realized losses of $127 million partially offset by interest and dividend income of $67 million on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds reflecting the discontinuance of regulatory accounting practices associated with nuclear decommissioning costs for the nuclear stations formerly owned by ComEd. The decrease in investment income was also offset by increased income of $31 million due to money market interest and interest on the loan to Sithe recorded in 2001. 116 Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.0% for 2001 as compared to 38.1% for 2000. The increase in the effective income tax rate was primarily attributable to a higher effective state income tax rate due to operations in Illinois subsequent to the merger and a reduction in investment tax credit amortization. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2001, Generation adopted SFAS No. 133, resulting in a benefit of $12 million (net of income taxes of $7 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financings including the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, investments in new and existing ventures, repayments of maturing debt and the payment of dividends. Any future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations were $1,138 million in 2002, compared to $1,274 million in 2001. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities is primarily due to a $124 million decrease in net income, and a $197 million decrease in cash flow related to working capital. This decrease is partially offset by a $185 million increase in cash flows related to other operating activities not included in working capital. Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including Generations affiliated companies, as well as settlements arising from Generations trading activities. Generations future cash flow from operating activities will depend upon future demand and market prices for energy and the ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Generation participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon made a discretionary plan contribution in 2002 of $150 million, of which $60 million was funded by Generation. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary plan contribution in 2003 of $300 million to $350 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,674 million in 2002, compared to $1,043 million in 2001. Capital expenditures, including investment in nuclear fuel, were $990 million in 2002. In addition to the 2002 capital expenditures, Generation purchased two natural gas and oil fired generating plants from TXU on April 25, 2002. The $443 million purchase was funded with commercial paper, which Exelon issued and Generation is repaying from cash flows from operations. The balance of Generations short term borrowings at December 31, 2002 attributable to the plants purchased from TXU, was approximately $70 million. Investing activities also included a $2 million use of cash for the November 1, 2002 purchase of the Sithe New England assets. The $2 million use is net of $12 million of cash acquired. The remainder of the purchase was financed with a $534 million note issued to Sithe. 117 In February 2002, Generation entered into an agreement to loan AmerGen up to $75 million at an interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 2.25%. In July 2002, the loan agreement and the loan were increased to $100 million and the maturity date was extended to July 1, 2003. As of December 31, 2002, the balance of the loan to AmerGen was $35 million. Generation has agreed to make capital contributions to AmerGen of 50% of the purchase price of any acquisitions that AmerGen makes. Generations capital expenditures are expected to be funded by internally generated funds, Generations borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by financing activities were $370 million in 2002, compared to cash used of $11 million in 2001. During 2002, Generation obtained a $348 million loan from Exelon, which included $331 million for the acquisition of two generating plants. The prior year amount represented net distributions of $136 million to Exelon and the issuance of long term debt of $821 million. Also, in 2001, Generation repaid $696 million it had borrowed from Exelon related to the acquisition of a 49.9% interest in Sithe. Financing activities in 2002 exclude the non cash issuance of a $534 million note issued to Sithe for the November 1, 2002 acquisition of the Sithe New England assets and approximately $1.0 billion of Sithe New England long term debt, which is reflected in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002. Credit Issues Generation meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through intercompany borrowings from Exelon and the issuance of commercial paper. Generation, along with Exelon, ComEd and PECO, participates in a $1.5 billion unsecured 364 day revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The credit facility became effective on November 22, 2002 and includes a term out option that allows any outstanding borrowings at the end of the revolving credit period to be repaid on November 21, 2004. Exelon may increase or decrease the sublimits of each of the participants upon written notification to these banks. As of December 31, 2002, there was no sublimit for Generation. The credit facility is expected to be used by Generation principally to support its commercial paper program. Certain of the credit agreements to which Generation is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes certain changes in working capital and interest on Sithe New Englands debt. Generations threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 3.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, Generation was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. At December 31, 2002, Generations capital structure consisted of 49% common stock, 15% notes payable and 36% long term debt. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the Exelon corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and Business Services Company may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether such funding results in mutual economic benefits to each of the participants, although Exelon is not permitted to be a net borrower from the money pool. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or specific borrowing rates if the funds are provided by external financing. There have been no material money pool transactions in 2002. 118 Generations access to the capital markets and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. None of Generations borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. From time to time Generation enters into energy commodity and other derivative transactions that require the maintenance of investment grade ratings. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would allow the counterparty to terminate the derivative and settle the transaction on a net present value basis. The following table shows Generations securities ratings at December 31, 2002: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 A BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Under PUHCA, Generation can only pay dividends from undistributed or current earnings. Generation is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. At December 31, 2002, Generation had undistributed earnings of $924 million. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations Generations contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 are as follows: Payment Due within Due After 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 2,137 $ 5 $ 1 $ 1,036 $ 1,095 Short Term Note to Sithe 534 534 Note Payable to Exelon Corporation 329 329 Operating Leases 592 32 45 51 464 Purchased Power Obligations 14,729 2,677 2,987 1,856 7,209 Spent Nuclear Fuel Obligations 858 858 Total Contractual Obligations $ 19,179 $ 3,577 $ 3,033 $ 2,943 $ 9,626 See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: Long Term Debt see Note 10 Short Term Note to Sithe see Note 4 Notes payable to Exelon for the acquisition of generating plants from TXU see note 16 Operating Leases see Note 13 Purchased Power Obligations see Note 13 Spent Nuclear Fuel Obligation see Note 9 Generation has a long term supply agreement through December 2022 with Distrigas to guarantee physical gas supply to Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 generating units. Under the agreement, prices are indexed to New England gas markets. 119 Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Generations current estimate of decommissioning costs for the nuclear plants owned by Generation is $7.4 billion in current year (2003) dollars. Nuclear decommissioning activity occurs primarily after a plant is retired. Based on the extended license lives of its nuclear plants, Generation will begin decommissioning its plants from 2014 through 2056, with expenditures primarily occurring when its operating plants are decommissioned, during the period from 2029 through 2056. At December 31, 2002, the decommissioning liability, which is recognized over the life of the plant, was recorded in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as Accumulated Depreciation and Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities in the amounts of $2.8 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $3.1 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2002. Generations commercial commitments as of December 31, 2002, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, including obligations to make payment on behalf of other parties and financing arrangements to secure its obligations, are as follows: Expiration within 2008 and beyond Total 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Credit Facility(a) $ $ $ $ $ Letters of Credit (non debt)(b) 11 6 5 Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt)(c) 346 195 151 Performance Guarantees(d) 101 101 Surety Bonds(e) 43 43 Energy Marketing Contract Guarantees(f) 1 1 Nuclear Insurance Guarantee(g) 134 134 Sithe New England Equity Guarantee(h) 38 38 Total Commercial Commitments $ 674 $ 240 $ 156 $ $ 278 (a)Credit Facility Exelon, along with ComEd, PECO and Generation, maintain a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility to support commercial paper issuances. At December 31, 2002, there were no borrowings against the credit facility. Generation does not have a sublimit under the facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, Generation did not have any commercial paper outstanding. (b)Letters of Credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (c)Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt) Direct pay letters of credit issued in connection with variable rate debt in order to provide liquidity in the event that it is not possible to remarket all of the debt as required following specific events, including changes in the basis of determining the interest rate on the debt. (d)Performance Guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (e)Surety Bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial surety bonds, excluding bid bonds. (f)Energy Marketing Contract Guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g)Nuclear Insurance Guarantee Guarantees of nuclear insurance required under the Price Anderson Act. This amount relates to Generations guarantee of AmerGens plants. Exelon has a $1.2 billion guarantee relating to Generations directly owned plants that is not included in this amount. 120 (h)Sithe New England Equity Guarantee See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the $38 million guarantee. After construction of the SBG facilities is complete, Generation could be required to guarantee up to an additional $42 million in order to ensure that the SBG facilities have adequate funds available for potential outage and other operating costs and requirements. Sithe Boston Generation Project Debt. In November 2002, Generation purchased the assets of Sithe New England. Sithe Boston Generating, LLC (SBG), a project subsidiary of Sithe New England has a $1.25 billion credit facility (SBG Facility), most of which is available to finance the construction projects of SBG. The outstanding balance of this facility at December 31, 2002 was $1.0 billion. The SBG Facility provides that if these construction projects are not completed by June 12, 2003, the SBG Facility lenders will have the right, but will not be required, to, among other things, declare all amounts then outstanding under the SBG Facility and the interest rate swap agreements to be due. Generation believes that the construction projects will be substantially complete by June 12, 2003, but that all of the approvals required under the SBG Facility may not be issued by that date. Generation is currently evaluating whether the requirements of the SBG Facility relating to the construction projects can be satisfied by June 12, 2003. In the event that the requirements are not expected to be satisfied by June 12, 2003, Generation will contact the SBG Facility lenders concerning an amendment or waiver of these provisions of the SBG Facility. Generation currently expects that arrangements for such an amendment or waiver, if necessary, can be successfully negotiated with the SBG Facility lenders. Unconsolidated Equity Investments. Generation is a 49.9% owner of Sithe and accounts for the investment as an unconsolidated equity investment. The Sithe New England asset purchase did not affect the accounting for Sithe as an equity investment. Separate from the Sithe New England transaction, Generation is subject to a PCA that gives Generation the right to Call the remaining 50.1% of Sithe, and gives the other Sithe shareholders the right to Put their interest to Generation. At the time of the purchase of Sithe in 2000, the other remaining interests in Sithe were held by Vivendi (34.2%), Marubeni (14.9%) and Sithe management (1%). If the Put option is exercised, Generation has the obligation to complete the purchase. At the end of this exercise period, which is December 2005, if Generation has not exercised its Call option and the other stockholders have not exercised their Put rights, Generation will have an additional one time option to purchase shares from the other stockholders to bring Generations ownership in Sithe from the current 49.9% to 50.1% of Sithes total outstanding common stock. The PCA originally provided that the Put and Call options became exercisable as of December 18, 2002 and expired in December 2005. However, upon Apollo Energy, LLCs (Apollo) purchase of Vivendis and Sithe managements ownership shares, Apollo agreed to delay the effective date of its Put right until June 1, 2003 and, if certain conditions are met, until September 1, 2003. There are also certain events that could trigger Apollos Put right becoming effective prior to June 1, 2003 including Exelon being downgraded below investment grade by Standard and Poors Rating Group or Moodys Investors Service, Inc., a stock purchase agreement between Generation and Apollo being executed and subsequently terminated, or the occurrence of any event of default, other than a change of control, under certain Generation or Apollo credit agreements. Depending on the triggering event, the Put price of approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest, needs to be funded within 18 or 30 days of the Put being exercised. There have been no changes to the Put and Call terms with respect to Marubenis remaining interest. The delay in the effective date of Apollos Put right allows Generation to explore a further restructuring of its investment in Sithe. Generation is continuing discussions with Apollo and Marubeni regarding restructuring alternatives that are designed in part to resolve its ownership limitations of Sithes qualifying facilities. In addition, Generation is exploring the sale of its interest in Sithe. In the event of a sale, Generation may recognize a one time loss. Generation would hope to implement any 121 additional restructuring or a sale of its Sithe investment in 2003. If Generation is unsuccessful in restructuring the Sithe transaction or selling its interest and, as a result, purchases the remaining 50.1% of Sithe under the PCA, Generation will proceed to implement measures to address the ownership of the qualified facilities as well as divest non strategic assets, for which the outcome is uncertain. If Generation exercises its option to acquire the remaining outstanding common stock in Sithe, or if all the other stockholders exercise their Put Rights, the purchase price for Apollos 35.2% interest will be approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest. The additional 14.9% interest will be valued at fair market value subject to a floor of $141 million and a ceiling of $290 million. If Generation increases its ownership in Sithe to 50.1% or more, Sithe may become a consolidated subsidiary and Generations financial results may include Sithes financial results from the date of purchase. At December 31, 2002, Sithe had total assets of $2.6 billion and total debt of $1.3 billion. This $1.3 billion includes $624 million of subsidiary debt incurred primarily to finance the construction of six new generating facilities, $461 million of subordinated debt, $103 million of line of credit borrowings, $43 million of current portion of long term debt and capital leases, $30 million of capital leases, and excludes $453 million of non recourse project debt associated with Sithes equity investments. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Sithe had revenues of $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2002, Generation had a $478 million equity investment in Sithe. Additionally, the debt on the books of Generations unconsolidated equity investments and joint ventures is not reflected on Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets. Generation estimates that this debt, including Sithes debt described in the preceding paragraph, totals approximately $1.3 billion and that Generations portion of that amount, based on its ownership interest in the investments, is approximately $673 million. Generations equity investment in AmerGen was $160 million and $95 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Generation and British Energy, Generations joint venture partner in AmerGen, have each agreed to provide up to $100 million to AmerGen at any time that the Management Committee of AmerGen determines that, in order to protect the public health and safety and or to comply with NRC requirements, these funds are necessary to meet ongoing operating expenses or to safely maintain any AmerGen plant. The current financial condition of British Energy has been the focus of media attention recently. Generation cannot predict the ability of British Energy to provide funds to AmerGen. However, Generation does not believe this will impact AmerGens ability to conduct its business. Other Generations cash flow hedges are impacted by commodity prices. These hedge contracts primarily represent forward sales of Generations excess capacity that it expects to deliver. The majority of these contracts are for delivery within one year. These contracts have specified credit limits pursuant to standardized contract terms and require that cash collateral be posted when the limits are exceeded. When power prices increase relative to Generations forward sales prices, it can be subject to collateral calls if Generation exceeds its credit limits. However, when power prices return to previous levels or when Generation delivers the power under its forward contracts, the collateral would be returned to Generation with no impact on its results of operations. Generation believes that it has sufficient capability to fund any collateral requirements that could be reasonably expected to occur 122  The NRC regulates the sufficiency of Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for the retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) with scheduled contributions and earnings of the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2002, Generation has a number of units, which, due to current market conditions, are being funded at a rate less than anticipated with respect to the NRCs Funding Levels. Generations calculations indicate that over time Generation may need to adjust its funding levels by up to $190 million, or less than 5% of the total. Generation will submit its biennial report to the NRC at the end of March 2003. At that time, Generation will address potential actions, in accordance with NRC requirements, to assure that Generation will remain adequately funded compared to the NRC Funding Levels. Taking into account anticipated license extensions, long term earnings of fund investments and other factors, Generation still believes that scheduled regulated collections from ComEd and PECO customers will provide adequate funding to decommission its nuclear facilities in accordance with regulatory requirements in spite of any temporary shortfall in NRC Funding Levels. Critical Accounting Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Estimates above for a discussion of Generations Critical Accounting Estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business Generation faces a number of challenges in achieving its vision and keeping its commitments to its customers and investors; however, there are two principal areas where Generation focuses its attention. First, Generations financial performance is significantly affected by the availability and utilization of its generation facilities. As the largest U.S. nuclear generator, Generation faces operational and regulatory risks that, if not managed diligently, could have significant adverse consequences. Second, Generations results of operations are directly affected by wholesale energy prices. Energy prices are driven by demand factors such as weather and economic conditions in Generations service territories. They are also driven by supply factors in the regions where Generation operates currently have excess capacity. Over the last several years, wholesale prices of electricity have generally been low. The possibility of continued low wholesale prices, coupled with a continued economic recessionary trend, could adversely affect Generations business. These and other challenges that will affect how Generation manages its business are described below. Generation operates a fleet of generating assets and markets the output of a portfolio of supply, which includes 100% owned assets, co owned facilities and purchased power. As discussed previously, Generation has entered into long term PPAs with ComEd and PECO. The majority of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under these agreements. To the extent the portfolio is not needed to supply power to ComEd or PECO, its output is sold on the wholesale market. Generations ability to grow is dependent upon its ability to cost effectively meet ComEds and PECOs load requirements, to manage its power portfolio and to effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial performance may be affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. The ownership and operation of nuclear facilities involve certain risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; the impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human error; the costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear material; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning 123 nuclear facilities at the end of their useful lives. The following are among the more significant of these risks: Operational risk. Operations at any nuclear generation plant could degrade to the point where Generation would have to shut down the plant. If this were to happen, the process of identifying and correcting the causes of the operational downgrade to return the plant to operation could require significant time and expense, resulting in both lost revenue and increased purchased power and fuel expense to meet its supply commitments. For plants operated by Generation but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation could incur liabilities to the co owners. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur substantial costs to restart the plant. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and may include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident could exceed Generations insurance coverages and significantly affect its results of operations or financial position. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. Nuclear regulation. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under it or the terms of the licenses of nuclear facilities. Changes in regulations by the NRC that require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or that result in increased operating or decommissioning costs could adversely affect Generations results of operations or financial condition. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may initiate such actions. Additional security requirements could also be imposed. Plant life extensions. In 2001, Generation extended the estimated lives of certain nuclear stations. This change in estimate reflects the current and planned applications to the NRC to renew the operating licenses of Generations nuclear stations. These applications for renewal, if approved by the NRC, will allow Generation to operate these plants for an additional 20 years longer than originally authorized. Nuclear station service life extensions are subject to NRC approval of an extension of existing NRC operating licenses, which are generally 20 years. Generation continues to fully believe that any such applications for renewal of operating licenses will be approved. However, if the NRC does not extend the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. Generations financial performance is affected in large measure by the availability and use of its nuclear generation capacity. Nuclear capacity factors. Generation capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect its results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs, but produce electricity at low marginal costs due to low variable fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear generating facilities at high capacity factors. Generations nuclear fleet performed at a 92.7% capacity factor (which represents the percentage of the total maximum energy that could be produced if facilities were operating full time year round) in 2002 and is targeted to operate at a 94.2% capacity factor in 2003. In calculating capacity factors, Generations nuclear fleet includes the AmerGen plants and excludes the Salem generation facility, which is operated by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSE&G). Lower capacity factors would increase its operating costs and could require Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy its obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources 124 generally are at a higher cost than Generation otherwise would have incurred to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Refueling outage scheduling at nuclear plants affects availability and costs. Outages at nuclear stations to replenish fuel require the station to be "turned off." Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 22 days in duration. Generation has significantly decreased the length of refueling outages in recent years. However, when refueling outages last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each twenty day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.1% and 0.4%. The number of refueling outages, including AmerGen, will decrease to eight in 2003 from eleven in 2002. Maintenance and capital expenditures are expected to decrease by approximately $45 million and $10 million, respectively, in 2003 as compared to 2002 as a result of fewer nuclear refueling outages. Nuclear fuel quality may affect costs. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of its operations. Certain Generation nuclear units have recently identified to have a limited number of fuel performance issues. While actions have been taken in accordance with Generations policies and procedures to ensure there are no public, personnel or operational issues, evaluation continues and further actions are under consideration. These actions, such as down powers, mid cycle outages, and or accelerated replacement of suspect fuel assemblies, will result in increased costs in 2003. In March 2003, a decision was made to replace suspect fuel assemblies at the Quad Cities Unit 1 facility. The 2003 impact from this decision is estimated to be approximately $20 million, before income taxes. Generation continues to evaluate other units that utilize similar fuel assemblies, but there currently are no plans to replace this fuel on an accelerated basis. Generation is directly affected by wholesale energy prices. Generation sells energy in the wholesale markets after meeting its contractual commitments to Energy Delivery and other parties. These sales expose Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and cash flows may vary accordingly. The amount of generation capacity that is exposed to the volatility of market prices depends inversely on the level of demand at ComEd and PECO. The wholesale prices of electricity have generally been lower than historical levels over the last few years. A continued trend of low wholesale electricity prices could negatively affect Generations results of operations. Factors that affect wholesale energy prices include the overall demand for energy, fossil fuel costs and excess capacity within the industry. Demand for energy. An increased demand for energy will normally cause energy prices to increase; however, if this increase in demand drives an incremental increase in supply, energy prices may be less affected. The demand for energy is directly affected by weather conditions and economic conditions in Generations service territories. Weather conditions. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation manages its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements to ComEd and PECO. Extreme summer conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse affect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generation does incorporate contingencies into its planning for 125 extreme weather conditions, including reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Economic conditions. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds and PECOs service territories directly affect the demand for electricity and gas. Changes in economic conditions and activity in ComEds and PECOs service territories and in other parts of the United States can affect the level of operations required in the generating facilities as well as the prevailing prices of electricity and gas in the wholesale markets in which Generation does business. Fossil fuel costs. At any given time, the open market wholesale price of electricity is affected by the cost of supplying one more unit of electricity to the market at that time. Many times the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of gas plus the spark spread, the cost to convert gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the cost of gas may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. Excess capacity. In addition to being affected by demand factors such as weather, the economy, and fossil fuel costs, energy prices are also impacted by the amount of supply available in a region. In the markets where Generation sells power, there has been a significant increase in the number of new power plants coming on line which has driven down power prices over the last few years. An "excess supply" problem currently exists in many parts of the country. A key factor for Generations future earnings is the timing of a return to more normal levels in the supply demand balance within the regions where Generation operates. The scope and scale of Generations nuclear generation resources provide a cost advantage in meeting its contractual commitments and enable Generation to sell power in the wholesale markets. The generation assets transferred to Generation by ComEd and PECO during the 2001 corporate restructuring, the generating plants acquired in 2002 and Generations investments in Sithe and AmerGen provide a critical mass of generation capacity and a leadership position in energy wholesale markets. Generations resources, including AmerGen, include interest in 11 nuclear generation stations, consisting of 19 units, which generated 125,916 GWhs, or more than half of Generations total supply in 2002. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can take advantage of its scale and scope to negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services required. Generations nuclear plants benefit from stable fuel costs, minimal environmental impact from operations, and a safe operating history. Generations financial performance will be affected by its ability to effectively operate and integrate the assets of Sithe New England into its business and to market the output. In November 2002, Generation acquired the generating assets of Sithe New England, which includes 2,421 MWs of gas fired combined facilities under construction and several operating generating facilities, which together with the assets under construction total 4,066 MWs of capacity. The facilities under construction (Mystic 8, Mystic 9, and Fore River) are currently in the final stages of construction and testing. Generation anticipates commercial operation dates during the second quarter of 2003. These projects have experienced delays in construction and any further delays could adversely affect Generations results. See further discussion of the Sithe Boston Generation Project Debt in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation. With the continued low wholesale energy prices, Generation anticipates that the effects of its Sithe investment and the Sithe New England acquisition will be dilutive to earnings by approximately $125 million before income taxes in 2003. 126 Power Team has not fully committed the output from these facilities into the New England markets. As such, the uncommitted capacity of the Sithe New England assets is subject to the fluctuations in market demand and market prices. Substantially all of the natural gas requirements for Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 will be supplied through a twenty year natural gas contract that became effective on December 1, 2002 with Distrigas. The Distrigas facilities consist of a LNG import terminal located adjacent to the Mystic station. Generation is anticipating an additional pipeline gas supply arrangement to supplement LNG supplies to be in service by early 2005. In the interim, any disruption in LNG supplies to the Distrigas facilities could restrict the operating abilities of Mystic 8 and Mystic 9. The interaction between ComEd and PECOs businesses and Generations businesses provide a partial hedge. The price of power purchased and sold in the open wholesale energy markets can vary significantly in response to market conditions. Both ComEd and PECO have entered into long term agreements for the next several years with Generation to procure the power at fixed rates needed to meet the demand of their customers. The amounts provided to affiliates vary from month to month; however, delivery requirements are generally highest in the summer when wholesale power prices are also generally highest. Therefore, energy committed to serve ComEd and PECO customers is not exposed to the price uncertainty of the open wholesale energy market. Consequently, Generation has limited its earnings exposure to the volatility of the wholesale energy market to the energy generated beyond the ComEd and PECO requirements, as well as any other contracted longer term obligations. Generally, between 60% and 70% of Generations electricity generated serves ComEd and PECO customers. Generation expects such levels to decrease to between 55% and 60% as a result of activating the acquired Sithe New England plants, which are currently under construction. One of the responsibilities of Power Team is to establish a hedging strategy, incorporating the load obligations of ComEd and PECO, to minimize the contracted volatility of Generations earnings and cash flows, and to maximize the value of economic generation in excess of that needed to serve ComEd and PECO requirements. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. In recent years, IPPs and the generation companies of disaggregated utilities have installed new generating capacity at a pace greater than the growth of electricity demand. As a result, the energy generation business is currently suffering from over capacity in certain parts of the country, which reduces wholesale energy prices. As discussed above, Generation is well positioned because it has entered into agreements for the next several years with ComEd and PECO to sell the power needed to meet the demand of their customers. These agreements provide a mechanism to enhance stability in Generations earnings and limit its exposure to the negative effects of wholesale markets. The commencement of commercial operation of new generating facilities in the regional markets where Generation has facilities or contracts for power, such as the Midwest, Mid Atlantic, Northeast and South (including certain sections of Texas), would likely decrease wholesale power market prices in those regions, which could have a negative effect on Generations business and results of operations. Generations financial performance may be affected by the marketing, trading and risk management activities of Power Team. Generations wholesale marketing unit, Power Team, 127 uses Generations energy generation portfolio, transmission rights and its power marketing expertise to manage delivery of energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO, under long term and short term contracts, participates in the wholesale energy market to hedge its open energy (power and fossil fuels) positions, manages commodity and counterparty credit risks through the use of documented risk and credit policies, and uses its energy market expertise to engage in trading activities for speculative purposes on a limited basis. Power Team has substantial experience in energy markets, generation dispatch and the requirements for the physical delivery of power. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with Generations capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale energy market. Power Team began proprietary trading activities in 2001, but this activity accounts for a small portion of Power Teams efforts. In 2002, proprietary trading activities resulted in an $18 million after tax reduction in earnings. Power Team will continue proprietary trading activities but in a more limited capacity given the current lack of liquidity of power markets and reduced number of creditworthy counterparties. Power Team has managed to avoid the recent managerial problems experienced in the energy trading industry through the strict adherence to prudent risk management practices. However, the recent failures of energy companies and their related energy trading practices over the last year have diminished the size and depth of the wholesale energy market. Generation cannot predict how this will affect Power Teams trading operations in the future. Generation depends on counterparties fulfilling their obligations. Generations trading, marketing and contracting operations are exposed to the risk that counterparties, which owe Generation money or energy as a result of market transactions, will not perform their obligations. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. Energy supplied by third party generators, including AmerGen and Sithe, under long term agreements represents a significant portion of Generations overall capacity. These third party generators face operational risks such as those that Generation faces, and their ability to perform also depends on their financial condition. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to honor the underlying commitment at then current market prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties. These agreements reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 128 See the Credit Risk section in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Generation for further discussions on specific credit risk matters such as Generations potential counterparty exposures, including Dynegy Inc. (Dynegy). Generations business is also affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations/Standard Market Design. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which it delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that it does not need to satisfy long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources, and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale spot markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features that may create trading barriers between the markets. Although FERC has proposed initiatives, including Order 2000 and the proposed SMD rule, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers, these initiatives have not yet led to the development of such markets all across the country. PJMs market strongly resembles FERCs proposal, and both the New England Independent System Operator (NE ISO) and the New York Independent System operator (NYISO) are implementing market reforms. Generation strongly encourages the development of standardized energy markets and support FERCs standardization efforts as being essential to wholesale competition in the energy industry and to Generations ability to compete on a national basis and to meet its long term contractual commitments efficiently. Approximately 26% of Generations current generation resources are located in the region encompassed by PJM. If the PJM market is expanded to the Midwest, 82% of Generations current assets will be located within the expanded market. The PJM market has been the most liquid regional market and is largely consistent with the standard market design proposed by FERC. Generations future results of operations may be impacted by the successful expansion of that market to the Midwest and the implementation of any market changes mandated by FERC. Provider of Last Resort. As noted, ComEd and PECO have a POLR obligation that they have largely assigned to Generation through the full requirements contracts that it has with Generation. Currently both ComEd and PECO have entered into PPAs with Generation to provide 100% of their respective energy requirements. ComEds PPA with Generation is for 100% of its required load through 2004 at fixed prices, and in 2005 and 2006 it equals 100% of the output of ComEds former nuclear plants, now owned by Generation at market based prices. PECOs PPA with Generation is a full load requirements contract through 2010. Exelon intends to revise the PPA between ComEd and Generation to be a full requirements contract in 2005 and 2006. Additionally, the PPAs between Generation, ComEd and PECO may be extended beyond their current expiration dates. ComEd and PECO continue to work on resolution of the POLR issues with their respective state regulatory commissions and other market participants. Effective management of capital projects is important to Generations business. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. As mentioned previously, as part of Generations recent acquisition of the assets of Sithe New England, Generation is in the process of completing the construction of three high efficiency generating facilities with projected capacity of 2,421 MWs of energy. The inability to effectively manage the capital projects, such as the Sithe New England facilities, could adversely affect Generations results from operations. 129 Capital Markets/Financing Environment In order to expand Generations operations and to meet the needs of its current and future customers, Generation invests in its businesses. Generations ability to finance its business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of its operations and its current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect its decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets. Further discussions of Generations liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. Generations ability to grow its business is affected by its ability to finance capital projects. Generations businesses require considerable capital resources. When necessary, Generation secures funds, through Exelon, from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. Generation actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Generation currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper (issued through Exelon) to fund its operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. Generations ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see Generations Credit Ratings above in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources), investor confidence in Generation and Exelon, investor confidence in regional wholesale power markets, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. Generations credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. Generation has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Also, from time to time, Generation enters into energy commodity and other contracts that require the maintenance of investment grade ratings. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require Generation to incur higher financing costs and would allow, but not in most instances require, counterparties to energy commodity contracts to terminate the contracts and settle the transaction. Also, the failure to maintain investment grade ratings would restrict Generations access to the wholesale energy markets. Equity market performance affects Generations decommissioning trust funds and Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans and the eventual nuclear generation station decommissioning requirements. If the markets continue to decline, Exelon may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trusts in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with Exelons overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. See ITEM 7. ComEd, PECO, 130 Gneration Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets. Other Generation may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. Generations businesses are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which Generation conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. These regulations affect how Generation handles air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of Generations operations. In addition, Generation is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by ComEd or PECO and of property contaminated by hazardous substances generated. Generation believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, Generation has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Generation is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, Generations reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $15 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. Generation has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but Generation cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover its environmental liabilities. Generation cannot predict whether it will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by Generation, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. Generations financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. Generation does not fully know the impact that future terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism may have on its industry in general and on itself in particular. The events of September 11, 2001 have affected Generations operating procedures and costs. Generation has initiated security measures to safeguard its employees and critical operations and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of its energy production and delivery systems. Generation has met or exceeded all security measures mandated by the NRC for nuclear plants after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. These security measures resulted in increased costs in 2002 of $19 million, of which approximately $10 million was capitalized. On a continuing basis, Generation is evaluating enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assessing long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expense to develop and implement, but will provide increased assurances as to Generations ability to continue to operate under difficult times. Nuclear liability insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The current limit is $9.5 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries nuclear liability insurance in the maximum available amount (currently $300 million per site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. The Price Anderson Act expired on August 1, 131 2002, but existing facilities, such as those owned and operated by Generation, remain covered. The provisions of the Price Anderson Act related to commercial facilities have been extended through 2003. The extension affects facilities obtaining NRC operating licenses in 2003. Existing facilities are unaffected by the extension. Other insurance. In addition to nuclear liability insurance, Generation also carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under Generations property damage and liability insurance would negatively affect its results of operations. NEIL, a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for its nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2002 was $40 million, which was recorded as a reduction to O&M expense on its Consolidated Statements of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect Generations results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect Generations operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil and LNG. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect Generations operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Generations revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect Generations ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within Generations markets. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse affect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information appearing under the subheading "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" under "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. 132 ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with credit, interest rates and commodity price. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, and interest rates. Exelons corporate Risk Management Committee (RMC) sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives for Exelon and its subsidiaries through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the board of directors on the scope of ComEds derivative activities. Credit Risk ComEd is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territories and the resulting broad customer base mitigates ComEds credit risk exposure. For the year ended December 31, 2002, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3% of its retail electric revenues. ComEd manages credit risk using credit and collection policies which are regulated by the ICC. Interest Rate Risk ComEd uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. ComEd also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. These strategies are employed to maintain the lowest cost of capital. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $1 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2003. ComEd has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps in order to maintain its targeted percentage of variable rate debt, associated with debt issuances in the aggregate amount of $485 million fixed rate obligation. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $41 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2002. ComEd has forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate amount of $630 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, had a fair market value exposure of $52 million. As it remained probable that the debt issuances, the forecasted future transactions these swaps were hedging, would occur, although the issuances had been delayed, ComEd continued to account for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. In connection with ComEds January 22, 2003 issuance of $700 million in First Mortgage Bonds, ComEd settled swaps, in the aggregate notional amount of $550 million, for a payment of $43 million, which will be recorded as a regulatory asset and amortized over the life of the debt issuance. In 2002, ComEd settled $450 million of forward starting interest rate swaps and paid $10 million to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $49 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is 133 estimated to be $33 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2001, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $69 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by ComEd to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $36 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by ComEd to the counterparties. Commodity Price Risk As part of the 2001 corporate restructuring, ComEd entered into a PPA with Generation to meet its retail customer obligations at fixed prices. ComEds principal exposure to commodity price risk is in relation to revenues collected from customers who elect the PPO at market based prices, and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. ComEd has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the net impact of a 10% decrease in the average around the clock market price of electricity. Because the decrease in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by increased CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in counterparty credit and interest rates. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the board of directors on the scope of Exelons derivative activities. As a result of the PPA with Generation, PECO does not believe it is subject to material commodity price risk. Credit Risk Credit risk for PECO is managed by its credit and collection policies, which is consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised service territories. As a result, PECO has a broad customer base. For the year ended December 31, 2002, PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 8% of its retail electric revenues. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric generating suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering. However, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. 134 Interest Rate Risk PECO uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. PECO also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would not have a material impact on pre tax earnings for 2003. During 2002, PECO entered into forward starting interest rate swaps, with an aggregate notional amount of $200 million, in anticipation of the issuance of debt at PECO. These interest rate swaps were designated as cash flow hedges. In connection with bond issuances in 2002, PECO settled these forward starting interest rate swaps resulting in a $5 million pre tax loss recorded in OCI, which is being amortized over the life of the related debt. PECO has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure associated with the floating rate series of transition bonds issued to securitize PECOs stranded cost recovery. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value exposure of $22 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2002. PECO also has interest rate swaps in place to satisfy counterparty credit requirements in regards to the floating rate series of transition bonds which are mirror swaps of each other. These swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges; therefore, they are required to be marked to market if there is a difference in their values. Since these swaps offset each other, a mark to market adjustment is not expected to occur. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $23 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by PECO to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $20 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by PECO to the counterparties. Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity prices. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity security prices. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the Exelon business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of Generations derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk Commodity price risk is associated with market price movements resulting from excess or insufficient generation, changes in fuel costs, market liquidity and other factors. Trading activities and non trading marketing activities include the purchase and sale of electric capacity and energy and fossil 135 fuels, including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. The availability and prices of energy and energy related commodities are subject to fluctuations due to factors such as weather, governmental environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and Federal regulatory policies and other events. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of its obligations to customers, including Energy Deliverys retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge its anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is 4 years. Generation has an estimated 90% hedge ratio in 2003 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of Generations forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEd and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, and energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods the amount hedged declines to meet the commitment to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any opportunistic efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity is an approximately $37 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes a 90% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio and represent a very small portion of its overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than 1% of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. The trading portfolio is subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Most non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133 discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates. Those that do not are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 and the ineffective portion of hedge contracts are recognized in earnings on a current basis. The following detailed presentation of the trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers. Generation does not consider its proprietary trading to be a significant activity in its business; however, Generation believes it is important to include these risk management disclosures. 136  The following table describes the drivers of Generations energy trading and marketing business and gross margin included in the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2002. Normal operations and hedging activities represent the marketing of electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation, including ComEd and PECOs retail load, sold into the wholesale market. As the information in this table highlights, mark to market activities represent a small portion of the overall gross margin for Generation. Accrual activities, including normal purchases and sales, account for the majority of the gross margin. The mark to market activities reported here are those relating to changes in fair value due to external movement in prices. Further delineation of gross margin by the type of accounting treatment typically afforded each type of activity is also presented (i.e., mark to market vs. accrual accounting treatment). Normal Operations and Hedging Activities(a) Proprietary Trading Total Mark to Market Activities: Unrealized Mark to Market Gain/(Loss) Origination Unrealized Gain/(Loss) at Inception $ $ $ Changes in Fair Value Prior to Settlements 26 (29 ) (3 ) Changes in Valuation Techniques and Assumptions Reclassification to Realized at Settlement of Contracts (20 ) 20 Total Change in Unrealized Fair Value 6 (9 ) (3 ) Realized Net Settlement of Transactions Subject to Mark to Market 20 (20 ) Total Mark to Market Activities Gross Margin $ 26 $ (29 ) $ (3 ) Accrual Activities: Accrual Activities Revenue $ 6,785 $ $ 6,785 Hedge Gains/(Losses) Reclassified from OCI 76 76 Total Revenue Accrual Activities 6,861 6,861 Purchased Power and Fuel 4,230 4,230 Hedges of Purchased Power and Fuel Reclassified from OCI 23 23 Total Purchased Power and Fuel 4,253 4,253 Total Accrual Activities Gross Margin 2,608 2,608 Total Gross Margin $ 2,634 $ (29 ) $ 2,605 (b) (a)Normal Operations and Hedging Activities only include derivative contracts Power Team enters into to hedge anticipated exposures related to its owned and contracted generation supply, but excludes its owned and contracted generating assets. (b)Total Gross Margin represents revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense for Generation. The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2002. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table will incorporate the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as shown in the previous table, as well as the settlements from OCI 137 to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets at January 1, 2002 $ 78 $ 14 $ 92 Total Change in Fair Value during 2002 of Contracts Recorded in Earnings 26 (29 ) (3 ) Reclassification to Realized at Settlement of Contracts Recorded in Earnings (20 ) 20 Reclassification to Realized at Settlement from OCI (53 ) (53 ) Effective Portion of Changes in Fair Value Recorded in OCI (210 ) (210 ) Purchase/Sale of Existing Contracts or Portfolios Subject to Mark to Market 11 11 Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) at December 31, 2002 $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The following table details the balance sheet classification of the Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets recorded as of December 31, 2002: Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Current Assets $ 186 $ 6 $ 192 Noncurrent Assets 46 46 Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Assets 232 6 238 Current Liabilities (276 ) (276 ) Noncurrent Liabilities (124 ) (1 ) (125 ) Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Liabilities (400 ) (1 ) (401 ) Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask midpoint prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, by region and by product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2002 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or 138 liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and generate or require cash. Maturities within 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 and Beyond Total Fair Value Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts(1): Prices provided by other external sources $ (124 ) $ (48 ) $ (9 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ (186 ) Total $ (124 ) $ (48 ) $ (9 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ (186 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts(2): Actively quoted prices $ 26 $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 30 Prices provided by other external sources 3 2 2 7 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 7 (11 ) (4 ) (9 ) (2 ) (19 ) Total $ 33 $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ (7 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 18 Proprietary Trading, other derivative contracts(3): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by other external sources 6 (3 ) 3 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 5 1 6 Total $ 7 $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ $ 5 Average tenor of proprietary trading portfolio(4) 1.5 years (1)Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (2)Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. (3)Mark to market gains and losses on trading contracts are recorded in earnings. (4)Following the recommendations of the Committee of Chief Risk Officers, the average tenor of the proprietary trading portfolio measures the average time to collect value for that portfolio. Generation measures the tenor by separating positive and negative mark to market values in its proprietary trading portfolio, estimating the mid point in years for each and then reporting the highest of the two mid points calculated. In the event that this methodology resulted in significantly different absolute values of the positive and negative cash flow streams, Generation would use the mid point of the portfolio with the largest cash flow stream as the tenor. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2002. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place, however, given that under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to cash flow hedges for the year ended December 31, 2002, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and 139 changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge Other Comprehensive Income Activity, Net of Income Tax Power Team Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate and Other Hedges(1) Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI, January 1, 2002 $ 47 $ 1 $ 48 Changes in Fair Value (128 ) (9 ) (137 ) Reclassifications from OCI to Net Income (33 ) (33 ) Accumulated OCI Derivative Gain/(Loss) at December 31, 2002 $ (114 ) $ (8 ) $ (122 ) (1)Includes interest rate hedges at Generation. Generation uses a Value at Risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk associated with financial derivative instruments entered into for proprietary trading purposes. The measured VaR represents an estimate of the potential change in value of Generations proprietary trading portfolio. The VaR estimate includes a number of assumptions about current market prices, estimates of volatility and correlations between market factors. These estimates, however, are not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may differ because actual market rate fluctuations may differ from forecasted fluctuations and because the portfolio may change over the holding period. Generation estimates VaR using a model based on the Monte Carlo simulation of commodity prices that captures the change in value of forward purchases and sales as well as option values. Parameters and values are back tested daily against daily changes in mark to market value for proprietary trading activity. VaR assumes that normal market conditions prevail and that there are no changes in positions. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. This means that Generation may state that there is a one in 20 chance that if prices move against its portfolio positions, its pre tax loss in liquidating its portfolio in a one day holding period would exceed the calculated VaR. To account for unusual events and loss of liquidity, Generation uses stress tests and scenario analysis. For financial reporting purposes only, Generation calculates several other VaR estimates. The higher the confidence interval, the less likely the chance that the VaR estimate would be exceeded. A longer holding period considers the effect of liquidity in being able to actually liquidate the portfolio. A two tailed test considers potential upside in the portfolio in addition to the potential downside in the 140 portfolio considered in the one tailed test. The following table provides the VaR for all proprietary trading positions of Generation as of December 31, 2002. Proprietary Trading VaR 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, One Tailed Period End $ 0.2 Average for the Period 1.4 High 5.0 Low 0.2 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period, Two Tailed Period End $ 0.3 Average for the Period 1.5 High 5.3 Low 0.1 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, Two Tailed Period End $ 0.9 Average for the Period 4.6 High 16.7 Low 0.4 Credit Risk Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The following table provides information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2002. Credit exposure, in the below table, is defined as net accounts receivable as well as any net in the money forward mark to market exposure. Exposures are shown net, if such agreements with counterparties are in place. It further delineates that exposure by the credit rating of the counterparties and provides guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The 141 figures in the table below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through Independent System Operators (ISOs) which are discussed below. Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number Of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure Of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Investment Grade $ 156 $ $ 156 2 $ 71 Split Rating Non Investment Grade 17 11 6 No External Ratings Internally Rated Investment Grade 27 4 23 4 16 Internally Rated Non Investment Grade 4 2 2 Total $ 204 $ 17 $ 187 6 $ 87 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating Less than 2 Years 2 5 Years Exposure Greater than 5 Years Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Investment Grade $ 117 $ 39 $ $ 156 Split Rating Non Investment Grade 17 17 No External Ratings Internally Rated Investment Grade 27 27 Internally Rated Non Investment Grade 4 4 Total $ 165 $ 39 $ $ 204 Generation is a counterparty to Dynegy in various energy transactions. In early July 2002, the credit ratings of Dynegy were downgraded to below investment grade by two credit rating agencies. As of December 31, 2002, Generation had a net receivable from Dynegy of approximately $3 million and, consistent with the terms of the existing credit arrangement, has received collateral in support of this receivable. Generation also has credit risk associated with Dynegy through Generations equity investment in Sithe. Sithe is a 60% owner of the Independence generating station (Independence), a 1,040 MW gas fired qualified facility that has an energy only long term tolling agreement with Dynegy, with a related financial swap arrangement. As of December 31, 2002, Sithe had recognized an asset on its balance sheet related to the fair market value of the financial swap agreement with Dynegy that is marked to market under the terms of SFAS No. 133. If Dynegy is unable to fulfill the terms of this agreement, Sithe would be required to impair this financial swap asset. Generation estimates, as a 49.9% owner of Sithe, that the impairment would result in an after tax reduction of its earnings of approximately $10 million. In addition to the impairment of the financial swap asset, if Dynegy were unable to fulfill its obligations under the financial swap agreement and the tolling agreement, Generation would likely incur a further impairment associated with Independence. Depending upon the timing of Dynegys failure to fulfill its obligations and the outcome of any restructuring initiatives, Generation could realize an after tax charge of between $0 and $130 million. In the event of a sale of Generations investment in Sithe to a third party, proceeds from the sale could be negatively impacted between $65 million and $100 million (after tax). Additionally, the future economic value of AmerGens PPA with Illinois Power Company, a subsidiary of Dynegy, could be impacted by events related to Dynegys financial condition. 142 Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets, which are administered by ISOs: PJM, New England ISO, New York ISO, California ISO, Midwest ISO, Inc., Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and Texas, which is administered by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and in certain of these areas power is traded on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Generation uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Generation also uses interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $4 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2003. Under the terms of the Sithe Boston Generation, LLC (SBG) credit facility, SBG is required to effectively fix the interest rate on 50% of borrowings under the facility through its maturity in 2007. As of December 31, 2002, Generation has entered into interest rate swap agreements, which have effectively fixed the interest rate on $861 million of notional principal, or 83% of borrowings outstanding under the SBG credit facility at December 31, 2002. The fair market value exposure of these swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, is $92 million. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $108 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $76 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. Equity Price Risk Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning its nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2002, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $172 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits section of ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation Critical Accounting Estimates for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 143 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation for a further discussion of Nuclear Decommissioning. In connection with the transfer of ComEds nuclear generating stations to Generation, ComEd asked the ICC to approve the continued recovery of decommissioning costs after the transfer. On December 20, 2000, the ICC issued an order finding that the ICC has the legal authority to permit ComEd to continue to recover decommissioning costs from customers for the six year term of the PPAs between ComEd and Generation. Under the ICC order, ComEd is permitted to recover $73 million per year from customers for decommissioning for the years 2001 through 2004. In 2005 and 2006, ComEd can recover up to $73 million annually, depending upon the portion of the output of the former ComEd nuclear stations that ComEd purchases from Generation. Under the ICC order, subsequent to 2006, there will be no further recoveries of decommissioning costs from customers. The ICC order also provides that any surplus funds after the nuclear stations are decommissioned must be refunded to customers. The ICC order has been upheld on appeal in the Illinois Appellate Court and the Illinois Supreme Court has declined to review the Appellate Courts decision. Nuclear decommissioning costs associated with the nuclear generating stations formerly owned by PECO continue to be recovered currently through rates charged by PECO to regulated customers. These amounts are remitted to Generation as allowed by the PUC. Under an agreement effective September 2001, PECO remits $29 million per year to Generation related to nuclear decommissioning cost recovery. On December 31, 2002, PECO filed with the PUC for an annual increase in its decommissioning cost recovery of $20 million effective June 1, 2004. The filing is consistent with provisions in the 1998 settlement and the settlement agreement entered into by PECO in 2000 related to the PUCs approval of the Merger, which require PECO to update the cost of decommissioning every five years. The additional amount requested is expected to be reduced as it does not reflect pending life extensions at Peach Bottom. The approval of the life extensions is expected by mid 2003. Zion, a two unit nuclear generation station, and Dresden Unit 1 formerly owned by ComEd, have permanently ceased power generation. ComEd transferred Zion and Dresden Unit 1, as well as their related decommissioning liabilities and trust funds, to Generation as part of the 2001 corporate restructuring. Zion and Dresden Unit 1s SNF is currently being stored in on site storage pools and dry cask storage, respectively, until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. Generation has 21 recorded a liability of $1.4 billion, which represents the estimated cost of decommissioning Zion and Dresden Unit 1 in current year dollars. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after 2013 and 2030 for Zion and Dresden Unit 1, respectively. Fossil and Hydroelectric Facilities. Fossil units include: base load units the coal fired units at Eddystone and Cromby and Generations interests in the Conemaugh Stations and Keystone; intermediate units the Cromby, Eddystone, and Mystic units that have dual fuel (oil/gas) capability; Handley, Mountain Creek and New Boston are gas fueled stations, Wyman is an oil fueled station; and peaking units oil or gas fired steam turbines, combustion turbines and internal combustion units at various locations. Hydroelectric facilities include: base load units at the Conowingo run of river hydroelectric facility on the Susquehanna River in Harford County, Maryland; and intermediate units at the Muddy Run pumped storage hydroelectric facility in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Generation operates all of its fossil and hydroelectric facilities other than La Porte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman. In 2002, approximately 6% of Generations electric output was generated from Generations owned fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. Generation is in the process of improving the operating performance and efficiency of its units. Recent activities include the following: a new eight unit 350 MW gas facility was brought on line in July 2002 in the Mid West region, control system upgrades at the Conowingo and Muddy Run hydro facilities to improve plant efficiency, and completion of a major turbine overhaul at the Cromby coal unit and further turbine overhauls are being studied for economic feasibility. The controls at all combustion turbine facilities have been upgraded to provide remote start capability for all units, enabling immediate response time to capture fluctuations in electric market prices. Additionally, Generation anticipates the construction of the new generating facilities in the New England region (Mystic 8&9 and Fore River) will be completed in the 2nd quarter of 2003. They are state of the art combined gas turbine stations. The Fore River station has dual fuel (oil/gas) capability. The plants will increase capacity by 2,421 MWs. Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, an economic one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by FERC. The Muddy Run and Conowingo facilities have licenses that expire in September 2014. Generation is considering applying to FERC for license extensions of 40 years for both plants, but the duration of any license extension will depend on then current policies at FERC. The process of applying for an extension to an existing hydroelectric license generally takes at least eight years. 22  Insurance. Generation does not carry business interruption insurance for its fossil and hydroelectric operations other than its coverage for Sithe New England. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations financial condition and results of operations. Long Term Contracts In addition to owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the long term contracts described below: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MW) Midwest Generation, LLC Various in Illinois 2004 4,879 Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2013 1,158 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP Franklin, Georgia 2030 925 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Others Various 2004 to 2022 6,108 Total 13,900 Midwest Generation, LLC Contract. Generation is a party to contracts with Midwest Generation, LLC (Midwest Generation), a subsidiary of Edison Mission Energy. Under the contracts, Generation initially had the right to purchase through 2004 the capacity and energy associated with approximately 9,460 MW of fossil fired generation stations located in Northern Illinois, formerly owned by ComEd. The generation units include base load, intermediate and peaking units. Under the contracts, Generation pays a fixed capacity charge that varies by season and a fixed energy charge. The capacity charge is reduced to the extent the plants are unable to generate and deliver energy when requested. Under the contracts, Generation has annual rights to reduce the capacity and related energy purchase obligations, and some of these rights were recently exercised. On January 1, 2002, Generation released all of the 355 MW of oil fixed peaking capacity that is covered by the contracts. On July 1, 2002, Generation elected to exercise its call option on 1,265 MWs of capacity for 2003. Generation has a total of 4,879 MWs of capacity under the Coal, Collins Generating Station (Collins) and Peaking Unit (Peaking) PPAs, of which Generation retains 1,918 MWs of option capacity under the Collins and Peaking PPAs as well as 1,265 MWs of option capacity under the Coal Generation PPA. Generation will decide whether to exercise its options in 2003, effective January 1, 2004, depending on the projected need for capacity and energy to fulfill obligations under the agreement with ComEd or otherwise, taking into account forward market conditions and other alternatives. On October 2, 2002, Generation notified Midwest Generation of its exercise of termination options under the existing Collins and Peaking Unit (Peaking) PPAs. Generation exercised its termination options on 1,727 MWs in 2003 and 2004. In 2003, Generation will take 1,778 MWs of option capacity under the Collins and Peaking Unit Agreements as well as 1,265 MWs of option capacity under the Coal Generation PPA. Federal Power Act The Federal Power Act gives FERC exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, all public utilities subject to FERCs jurisdiction are required to file rate schedules with FERC with respect to wholesale sales or transmission of electricity. Tariffs established under FERC regulation give Generation access to transmission lines that enables it to participate in competitive wholesale markets. Because Generation sells power in the wholesale markets, Generation is deemed to be a public utility for purposes of the Federal Power Act and is required to obtain FERCs acceptance of the rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. Generation has received authorization from FERC to sell 23 energy at market based rates. As is customary with market based rate schedules, FERC reserved the right to suspend market based rate authority on a retroactive basis if it is subsequently determined that Generation or any of its affiliates exercised or have the ability to exercise market power. FERC is also authorized to order refunds if it finds that market based rates are unreasonable. In April 1996, FERC issued Order No. 888 (Order 888). The intent of Order 888 was to open the transmission grid subject to FERCs jurisdiction to all eligible customers, including sellers of power and retail customers, in states where retail access is approved. Order 888 requires that owners of transmission facilities provide access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. In connection with Order 888, FERC issued Order No. 889 (Order 889). Under Order 889, PECO and ComEd were required to file Standards of Conduct, which governed the communication of non public information between transmission personnel and employees of any affiliated wholesale merchant function. FERC recently issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for the Standards of Conduct for Transmission Providers. Among other things, FERC is considering whether it would be appropriate for it to adopt measures that would limit the amount of capacity an affiliate can hold in a transmission provider. Generations business would be impacted if any of these measures were instituted. As described above under Energy Delivery Transmission Services, in December 1999, FERC issued Order 2000, to encourage the voluntary formation of RTOs by December 2001 that would provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. One of the intended benefits of establishing these entities is to eliminate or reduce transmission charges imposed by successive transmission systems when wholesale generators cross several transmission systems to deliver capacity. However, inconsistencies in the pace of RTO development and significant state public utility commission concerns caused FERC to indefinitely extend its operational target date of December 2001. PJM has been approved as an RTO, as has the Midwest ISO. However, ISOs operating in other regions where Generation owns facilities have not yet been fully approved as RTOs. FERC has also proposed rulemakings to mandate a standard market design (SMD) for the wholesale markets. Order 2000 and the proposed SMD rule contemplate that the jurisdictional transmission owners in a region will turn over operating authority over their transmission facilities to an RTO or other independent entity for the purpose of providing open transmission access. As a result, the independent entity will become the provider of the transmission service and the transmission owners will recover their revenue requirements through the independent entity. The transmission owners will remain responsible for maintaining and physically operating their transmission facilities. The SMD rulemaking proposal would also require RTOs to operate an organized bid based wholesale market for those who wish to sell their generation through the market and to implement a financially based system for dealing with congestion on transmission lines known as "locational marginal pricing" (LMP). FERC has also issued proposals to encourage RTO development, independent control of the transmission grid and expansion of the transmission grid by providing enhanced returns on equity for transmission assets. FERCs SMD proposal has met with substantial opposition from a number of parties, including some state regulators and other governmental officials. As a result, FERC has delayed issuance of a final rule indefinitely while it seeks further comment. FERC Order 2000 has not led to the rapid development of RTOs and FERC has not yet finalized its SMD proposal, due in part to the resistance noted above. Exelon supports both of these proposals but cannot predict whether they will be successful, what impact they may ultimately have on Exelons transmission rates, revenues and operation of its transmission facilities, or whether they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. To the extent ComEd and PECO have POLR obligations, and may at some point no longer have long term supply contracts with Generation for their load, the ability of ComEd and PECO to cost effectively serve their POLR load obligation will depend on the development of such markets. 24 In late 2001, FERC initiated an effort to standardize generator interconnection policies and procedures. When FERC issues a final rule on this subject, it is expected that generators will benefit from not having to deal on a case by case basis with different and sometimes inconsistent requirements of different transmission providers. Several other actions by FERC should be noted. First, FERC announced in late November 2001 a new market power test, the Supply Margin Assessment (SMA) screen. Under the SMA, if within a particular geographic market an energy companys generation capacity exceeds the markets surplus capacity above peak demand then the test is failed. Where this occurs, FERC will impose on the company and its affiliates a requirement to offer uncommitted capacity under a cost based rate structure. The only exemption will be for companies operating under the authority of an ISO or RTO with a FERC approved market monitoring and mitigation plan. Under this approach, it would be unlikely that a vertically integrated energy company serving franchised retail load would be able to pass the test and maintain market based rates, unless and until the company was a member of an approved ISO or RTO. In December 2001, FERC essentially suspended the applicability of this test, holding that no company would be required to undertake any mitigation until after FERC had held a technical conference on the subject. This technical conference has not been scheduled. Second, FERC continues to exhibit a commitment to increased market monitoring with an intent to ensure that high price volatility, such as was seen in California, does not occur again. As part of this commitment, FERC announced early in 2002 the formation of the Office of Market Oversight and Investigation, which will report directly to the FERC Chairman. This new office will assess, among other things, market performance. It is unclear how Generations business may be impacted by these initiatives. Currently, while a significant portion of Generations capacity is located within the PJM RTO area, other significant generation is located within the Mid American Interconnected Network (MAIN) reliability region, and is not yet in an approved ISO or RTO. When ComEd joins PJM, most of this capacity will be in an approved RTO. Generation also owns capacity located within the service territory of Illinois Power Company (IP). IP has entered into an agreement to sell its transmission system, and the proposed buyer has notified FERC that it intends to place that system under the control of Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc., which is also an approved RTO. In the meantime, however, it is possible that under its evolving market power tests, FERC might determine that Generation has market power in this area. If FERC were to suspend Generations market based rate authority, it would most likely be necessary to file, and obtain FERC acceptance of, cost based rate schedules or schedules tied to a public index. In addition, the loss of market based rate authority would subject Generation to the accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on public utilities with cost based rate schedules. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in gigawatthours (GWhs) for 2002 and estimated for 2003: Source of Electric Supply 2002 2003 (Est.) Nuclear units(1) 115,854 119,733 Purchases non trading portfolio(2) 78,710 61,271 Fossil and hydro units 12,976 11,326 Total Supply 207,540 192,330 (1)Excluding AmerGen. 25 (2)Including PPAs with AmerGen. The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its commitment to supply the requirements of ComEd, PECO and certain requirements of Enterprises competitive retail energy sales business, Exelon Energy Inc. (Exelon Energy), and for sales to other utilities. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2004. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2005. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2004. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2005. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services for its nuclear units. Generation obtains approximately 25% of its uranium enrichment services from European suppliers. There is an ongoing trade action by USEC, Inc. (USEC) alleging dumping in the United States against European enrichment services suppliers. In January 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission determined that USEC was "materially injured or threatened with material injury" by low enriched uranium exported by European suppliers. The U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) has assessed countervailing and anti dumping duties against the European suppliers. Both USEC and the European suppliers have appealed these decisions. Generation is uncertain at this time as to the outcome of the pending appeals, however as a result of these actions Generation may incur higher costs for uranium enrichment services necessary for the production of nuclear fuel. Fuel Management. Coal is obtained for coal fired plants primarily through annual contracts with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. Substantially all of the natural gas requirements for Generations Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 units, currently under construction, will be supplied through a twenty year natural gas contract that became effective on December 1, 2002 with Distrigas of Massachusetts, LLC (Distrigas). The Distrigas facilities consist of a LNG import terminal located adjacent to the Mystic station. Generation is anticipating an additional pipeline gas supply arrangement to supplement LNG supplies to be in service by early 2005. Natural gas requirements for operating stations and other stations under construction will be procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed such that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months inventory levels are managed to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with multi commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. Power Team Power Team uses Generations energy generation portfolio, transmission rights and power marketing expertise to manage delivery of energy to wholesale customers, including Energy Delivery, under long term and short term contracts, participates in the wholesale energy market to hedge open energy (power and fossil fuels) positions, manages commodity and counterparty credit risks through the use of documented risk and credit policies, and uses its energy market expertise to engage in trading activities for speculative purposes on a limited basis. Generation has agreements with ComEd and PECO to supply their respective load requirements for customers through 2004 and 2010, respectively. During 2005 and 2006, ComEds PPA is a partial 26 requirements agreement under which ComEd will purchase all of its required energy and capacity from Generation, up to the available capacity of the nuclear generating plants formerly owned by ComEd and transferred to Generation. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd and PECO Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation has also contracted with Exelon Energy, a division of Enterprises, to meet certain supply commitments pursuant to its competitive retail generation sales agreements. Under the agreements with ComEd and PECO, Generation will supply all of ComEd and PECOs needs to supply customers who do not select an alternative electric generation supplier through the end of the respective transition periods. Therefore, the supply requirements under the agreements will vary depending on how much of the load has selected an alternative supplier. Power Team has experience in energy markets, generation dispatch and the requirements for the physical delivery of power. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including Energy Delivery. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale energy market. Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity, and long, intermediate and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. These agreements are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers. Excess power is sold in the wholesale market. Generation has also purchased transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs. The intent and business objective for the use of its capital assets and contracts is to provide Generation with physical power supply to enable it to deliver energy to meet customer needs. Power Team also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is 4 years. Generations hedge ratio in 2003 for its energy marketing portfolio is approximately 90%. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to Energy Deliverys retail load. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand and volatility. During peak periods, the amount hedged declines to assure Generations commitment to meet Energy Deliverys demand, for which the peak demand is during the summer. For the portion of generation supply that is unhedged, fluctuations in market price of energy will cause volatility in Generations results of operations. Through Power Team, Generation began to use financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001 but this activity accounts for a small portion of Power Teams efforts. In 2002, proprietary trading activities resulted in an $18 million after tax reduction in Generations earnings. Power Team intends to continue proprietary trading activities but in a more limited capacity given the current lack of liquidity of power markets and reduced number of creditworthy counterparties. The trading portfolio is subject to stringent risk management limits and policies including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, Generation has a financial risk management policy and a corporate risk group to monitor the financial risks of its power marketing activities. Proprietary trading of derivatives, together with the effects of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 27 (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 133), may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. The recent failures of energy companies and their related energy trading practices over the last year have diminished the size and depth of the wholesale energy market. Generation cannot predict how this will affect its trading operations in the future. At December 31, 2002, Generation had long term commitments, relating to the purchase and sale of energy, capacity and transmission rights from and to unaffiliated utilities and others, including the Midwest Generation and AmerGen contracts, as expressed in the following tables: Power Only Purchases from Net Capacity Purchases(1) Power Only Sales AmerGen Non Affiliates Transmission Rights Purchases(2) 2003 $ 589 $ 2,442 $ 280 $ 1,722 $ 86 2004 639 1,088 292 768 93 2005 356 272 472 283 84 2006 328 92 472 239 3 2007 408 22 179 227 Thereafter 3,742 1 2,638 829 Total $ 6,062 $ 3,917 $ 4,333 $ 4,068 $ 266 (1)On October 2, 2002, Generation notified Midwest Generation of its exercise of termination options under the existing Collins and Peaking PPA. Generation exercised its termination options on 1,727 MWs in 2003 and 2004. In 2003, Generation will take 1,778 MWs of option capacity under the Collins and Peaking Unit Agreements as well as 1,265 MWs of option capacity under the Coal Generation PPA. Net capacity purchases in 2004 include 3,474 MWs of optional capacity from Midwest Generation. Net Capacity Purchases also include capacity sales to TXU under the PPA entered into in connection with the purchase of two generating plants in April 2002, which states that TXU will purchase the plant output from May through September from 2002 through 2006. During the periods covered by the PPA, TXU will make fixed capacity payments and will provide fuel to Generation in return for exclusive rights to the energy and capacity of the generation plants. The combined capacity of the two plants is 2,334 MWs. (2)Transmission Rights Purchases include estimated commitments in 2004 and 2005 for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. Additionally, Generation has the following commitments: In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA with ComEd under which Generation has agreed to supply all of ComEds load requirements through 2004. Prices for this energy vary depending upon the time of day and month of delivery. During 2005 and 2006, ComEds PPA is a partial requirements agreement under which ComEd will purchase all of its required energy and capacity from Generation, up to the available capacity of the nuclear generating plants formerly owned by ComEd and transferred to Generation. Under the terms of the PPA, Generation is responsible for obtaining any required transmission service, subject to ComEds obligation to obtain network service over the ComEd system. The PPA also specifies that prior to 2005, ComEd and Generation will jointly determine and agree on a market based price for energy delivered under the PPA for 2005 and 2006. In the event that the parties cannot agree to market based prices for 2005 and 2006 prior to July 1, 2004, ComEd has the option of terminating the PPA effective December 31, 2004. ComEd will obtain any additional supply required from market sources in 2005 and 2006, and subsequent to 2006, will obtain all of its supply from market sources, which could include Generation. 28 In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA with PECO under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with substantially all of its electric supply through 2010. Also, under the restructuring, PECO assigned its rights and obligations under various PPAs and fuel supply agreements to Generation. Generation supplies power to PECO from the transferred generation assets, assigned PPAs and other market sources. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. As part of Generations recent acquisition of the assets of Sithe New England, Generation is in the process of completing the construction of three high efficiency generating facilities with projected capacity of 2,421 MWs of energy. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2003 are as follows: (in millions) Production Plant $ 566 Nuclear Fuel 397 Total $ 963 The majority of Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2003 are for nuclear fuel and additions to or upgrades of existing facilities. Sithe Generation is a 49.9% owner of Sithe and accounts for the investment as an unconsolidated equity investment. Sithe presently owns 19 generating stations in North America, with approximately 1,321 MWs of net generating capacity and 230 MWs under construction. In connection with its initial investment in Sithe, Generation is subject to a Put and Call Agreement (PCA) that gives Generation the right to purchase (Call) the remaining 50.1% of Sithe, and gives the other Sithe shareholders the right to sell (Put) their interest to Generation. At the time of the purchase of Sithe in 2000, the other remaining interests in Sithe were held by Vivendi (34.2%), Marubeni (14.9%) and Sithe management (1%). If the Put option is exercised, Generation has the obligation to complete the purchase. The PCA originally provided that the Put and Call options became exercisable as of December 18, 2002 and expired in December 2005. However, upon Apollo Energy, LLCs (Apollo) purchase of Vivendis and Sithe managements ownership shares, Apollo agreed to delay the effective date of its Put right until June 1, 2003 and, if certain conditions are met, until September 1, 2003. There are also certain events that could trigger Apollos Put right becoming effective prior to June 1, 2003 including Exelon being downgraded below investment grade by Standard and Poors Rating Group or Moodys Investors Service, Inc., a stock purchase agreement between Generation and Apollo being executed and subsequently terminated, or the occurrence of any event of default, other than a change of control, under certain Generation or Apollo credit agreements. Depending on the triggering event, Apollos put price of approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest, needs to be funded within 18 or 30 days of the Put being exercised. There have been no changes to the Put and Call terms with respect to Marubenis remaining interest. The delay in the effective date of Apollos Put right allows Generation to explore a further restructuring of its investment in Sithe. Generation is continuing discussions with Apollo and Marubeni regarding restructuring alternatives that are designed in part to resolve its ownership limitations of Sithes qualifying facilities. In addition, Generation is exploring the sale of its interest in Sithe. In the event of a sale, Generation may recognize a one time loss. Generation would hope to implement any 29 additional restructuring or a sale of its Sithe investment in 2003. If Generation is unsuccessful in restructuring the Sithe transaction or selling its interest and, as a result, purchases the remaining 50.1% of Sithe under the PCA, Generation will proceed to implement measures to address the ownership of the qualified facilities as well as divest non strategic assets, for which the outcome is uncertain. If Generation exercises its option to acquire the remaining outstanding common stock in Sithe, or if all the other stockholders exercise their Put Rights, the purchase price for Apollos 35.2% interest will be approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest. The additional 14.9% interest will be valued at fair market value subject to a floor of $141 million and a ceiling of $290 million. If Generation increases its ownership in Sithe to 50.1% or more, Sithe may become a consolidated subsidiary and Generations financial results may include Sithes financial results from the date of purchase. At December 31, 2002, Sithe had total assets of $2.6 billion and total debt of $1.3 billion. This $1.3 billion includes $624 million of subsidiary debt incurred primarily to finance the construction of six generating facilities, $461 million of subordinated debt, $103 million of line of credit borrowings, $43 million of the current portion of long term debt and capital leases, $30 million of capital leases, and excludes $453 million of non recourse project debt associated with Sithes equity investments. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Sithe had revenues of $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2002, Generation had a $478 million equity investment in Sithe. In December 2001, Sithe entered into an 18 month corporate credit facility for $500 million expiring in June 2003. As of November 1, 2002, the credit facility was reduced to $350 million. As of December 31, 2002, Sithe had drawn approximately $103 million under this facility and extended approximately $139 million in letters of credit. Through internally generated cash flows and the corporate credit facility, Sithe has sufficient liquidity to cover all 2003 operating and capital commitments. AmerGen AmerGen was formed in 1997 by PECO and British Energy, to acquire and operate nuclear generation facilities in North America. Currently, AmerGen owns three single unit nuclear generation facilities, which are described in the table below. AmerGens nuclear facilities are subject to the provisions and maximum assessment and recovery limits of the Price Anderson Act and NEIL similar to Generations, as previously discussed within ITEM 1. Business Generation, however the American Nuclear Insurers Master Worker Program is not applicable to AmerGen as AmerGen purchased its nuclear reactors after 1998. The capacity factors for the AmerGen plants for 2002 and 2001 were 93.4% and 88.5%, respectively. AmerGen operates these nuclear facilities; however, Generation provides AmerGen with many services, including management services, in connection with the operation and support of these facilities under a Services Agreement dated March 1, 1999. In addition, Generations chief nuclear 30 officer holds the same position at AmerGen. As part of the 2001 corporate restructuring, PECO transferred its 50% interest in AmerGen to Generation. Station Year Acquired Location License Expiration Date(1) Net Generation Capacity (MW) Clinton Nuclear Power Station 1999 Clinton, IL 2026 1,015 Unit 1 of Three Mile Island Nuclear Station 1999 Londonderry Twp., PA 2014 837 Oyster Creek Generating Station 2000 Forked River, NJ 2009 629 Total 2,481 (1)AmerGen is reviewing the potential for license renewals for the Oyster Creek Generating Station (Oyster Creek) and Unit 1 of Three Mile Island Nuclear Station (TMI). As part of each acquisition of its nuclear facilities, AmerGen entered into a power sales agreement with the seller. The agreement with Illinois Power for Clinton Nuclear Power Station (Clinton) is for 75% of the output for a term expiring at the end of 2004. Generation purchases the residual energy from Clinton through December 31, 2003. The agreement with GPU, Inc. for TMI and Oyster Creek are for all of the output. The agreement for the output of Oyster Creek expires on March 31, 2003. The original agreement for the output of TMI expired in 2001. Generation has agreed to purchase from AmerGen all the energy from TMI after December 31, 2001 through December 31, 2014. AmerGen maintains a decommissioning trust fund for each of its plants in accordance with NRC regulations and believes that amounts in these trust funds, together with investment earnings thereon, and additional contributions for Clinton from Illinois Power will be sufficient to meet its decommissioning obligations. Under its LLC Agreement, AmerGen is managed by or at the direction of a management committee, which consists of six voting representatives, three of whom are appointed by British Energy and three by Generation. In addition, Generation appoints the chairman of the management committee. Action by the management committee generally requires the affirmative vote of a majority of members. Generation may transfer its interest in AmerGen, as may British Energy, subject to a right of first refusal of the other party and to the right of the other party to require a third party buying the interest to also purchase the other partys interest and to the right of the non selling member to veto the proposed transfer. In September 2002, both Generation and British Energy announced that they were considering the possibility of selling their interests in AmerGen. On March 7, 2003, Exelon and British Energy announced that they agreed to reject all offers for the purchase of AmerGen. With the termination of the sale process, Generation announced that it no longer intends to sell its interest in AmerGen. In 2002, Generation entered into an agreement to loan AmerGen up to $100 million at an interest rate of 1 month London Interbank Offering Rate plus 2.25%. As of December 31, 2002, the outstanding principal balance of the loan was $35 million. The loan is due July 1, 2003. Although Exelon does not anticipate that AmerGen will make any acquisitions in 2003, Exelon has committed to provide AmerGen with capital contributions equivalent to 50% of the purchase price of any acquisitions AmerGen makes in 2003. On December 11, 2002, AmerGen received a notice of violation from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection for a substantial fish kill, which occurred on September 23, 2002 at Oyster Creek, resulting from the shutdown of dilution pumps during maintenance. The New Jersey 31 Department of Environmental Protection has assessed civil penalties and claims for natural damage to the state totaling $373,000 relating to the incident. In addition to the notice of violation, the Attorney General of the State of New Jersey has commenced a criminal investigation into the circumstances surrounding the fish kill. AmerGen is cooperating fully with the Attorney General in its investigation and is working to settle the civil penalty and damage claims in conjunction with the investigation. Enterprises Enterprises consists primarily of the infrastructure services business of InfraSource, Inc. (InfraSource), the energy services business of Exelon Services, Inc., the competitive retail energy sales business of Exelon Energy Company, the district cooling business of Exelon Thermal Holdings, Inc., communications joint ventures and other investments weighted towards the communications, energy services and retail services industries. The results of InfraSources infrastructure services business and Exelon Services energy services business are dependent on demand for construction and maintenance services. That demand has been driven in the past by the restructuring of the electric utility industry and growth of the communications, cable and internet industries. Slowdown in that restructuring and the current condition of the communications, cable and internet industries means that results will be driven by efforts to manage costs and achieve synergies. InfraSource, formerly Exelon Infrastructure Services, Inc., provides infrastructure services, including infrastructure construction, operation management and maintenance services to owners of electric, gas, cable and communications systems, including industrial and commercial customers, utilities and municipalities, throughout the United States. Since it was established in 1997, InfraSource has acquired thirteen infrastructure service companies. In 2002, InfraSource had revenues of approximately $900 million and employed approximately 4,900 at the end of 2002. Exelon Services is engaged in the design, installation and servicing of heating, ventilation and air conditioning facilities for commercial and industrial customers throughout the Midwest. Exelon Services also provides energy related services, including performance contracting and energy management systems. Exelon Energy provides retail electric and gas services as an unregulated retail energy supplier in Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania and other areas in the Midwest and Northeast United States. Its retail energy sales business is dependent upon continued deregulation of retail electric and gas markets and its ability to obtain supplies of electricity and gas at competitive prices in the wholesale market. The low margin nature of the business makes it important to achieve concentrations of customers with higher volumes so as to manage costs. Exelon Thermal provides district cooling and related services to offices and other buildings in the central business district of Chicago and in several other cities in North America. District cooling involves the production of chilled water at one or more central locations and its circulation to customers buildings, primarily for air conditioning. Exelon Communications is the unit of Enterprises through which Exelon manages its communications investments. Exelon Communications principal investment is PECOAdelphia Communications (PECOAdelphia). PECOAdelphia is a competitive local exchange carrier, providing local and long distance, point to point voice and data communications, internet access and enhanced data services for businesses and institutions in eastern Pennsylvania. PECOAdelphia is a 50% owned joint venture with Adelphia Business Solutions. PECOAdelphia utilizes a large scale, fiber optic cable based network that currently extends over 1,100 miles and is connected to major long distance carriers and local businesses. 32 On April 1, 2002, Enterprises sold its 49% interest in AT&T Wireless PCS of Philadelphia, LLC to a subsidiary of AT&T Wireless Services for $285 million in cash. Exelon Capital Partners was created in 1999 as a vehicle for direct venture capital investing in the areas of unregulated energy sales, energy services, utility infrastructure services, e commerce and communications. At December 31, 2002, Exelon Capital Partners had direct investments in thirteen companies and investments in four venture capital funds. Enterprises is focused on operating its businesses and investments with the goal of maximizing its earnings and cash flow. Enterprises is not currently contemplating any acquisitions. Enterprises expects to divest itself of businesses that are not consistent with Exelons strategic direction. This does not necessarily mean that an immediate exit will be arranged, but rather businesses may be retained for a period of time if that course of action will strengthen their value. Employees As of December 31, 2002, Exelon and its subsidiaries had approximately 25,200 employees, in the following companies: ComEd 7,000 PECO 2,700 Generation 7,200 Enterprises 7,500 BSC 800 Total 25,200 Approximately 6,200 employees, including 4,400 employees of ComEd, 1,700 employees of Generation and 60 employees of BSC are covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA) with Local 15 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW Local 15). The CBA for Generation expires in September 30, 2005. The CBA for ComEd and BSC expires in September 30, 2006. The CBAs provide for a voluntary severance plan. In addition to IBEW Local 15, approximately 200 Generation employees are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America. Approximately 5,000 Enterprises employees are represented by unions, including approximately 2,500 employees who are represented by various local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. The remaining union employees are members of a number of different local unions, including laborers, welders, operators, plumbers and machinists. PECO employees are not currently covered by a CBA. Over the past several years, a number of unions have filed petitions with the National Labor Relations Board to hold certification elections with regard to different segments of employees within PECO. In all cases, PECO employees have rejected union representation. On August 15, 2002, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers filed a petition to conduct a unionization vote of certain of PECOs employees. It is expected that this election will occur in the second quarter of 2003. Exelon expects that such petitions, related to segments of employees at PECO, Generation and Enterprises, will continue to be filed in the future. Environmental Regulation General Specific operations of Exelon, primarily those of ComEd, PECO, and Generation, are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by various states and local jurisdictions where Exelon operates its facilities. The Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the State of Illinois, together with the Illinois Environmental 33 Protection Agency, which enforces regulations of the IPCB and issues permits in connection with environmental control. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PDEP) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has jurisdiction in Texas and Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction in Massachusetts. State regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated. Those permits must be renewed periodically. Generation either has NPDES permits for all of its generating stations or has pending applications for such permits. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and interstate agencies, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These potentially responsible parties (PRPs) can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. ComEd, PECO and Generation and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. By notice issued in November 1986, the EPA notified over 800 entities, including ComEd and PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to releases of radioactive and or toxic substances from the Maxey Flats disposal site, a LLRW disposal site near Moorehead, Kentucky, where ComEd and PECO wastes were deposited. A settlement was reached among the Federal and private PRPs, including ComEd and PECO, the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the EPA concerning their respective roles and responsibilities in conducting remedial activities at the site. Under the settlement, the private PRPs agreed to perform the initial remedial work at the site and the Commonwealth of Kentucky agreed to assume responsibility for long range maintenance and final remediation of the site. On April 18, 1996, a consent decree, which included the terms of the settlement, was entered by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. The PRPs have entered into a 34 contract for the design and implementation of the remedial plan. The work has commenced and is expected to be completed in 2003. Exelon estimates that it will be responsible for approximately $800,000 of the remediation costs to be incurred by the PRPs in implementing the remedial activities specified in the consent decree. As a result of the 2001 corporate restructuring, ComEds and PECOs liability and obligations arising from the Maxey Flats site have been transferred to Generation. By notice issued in December 1987, the EPA notified several entities, including PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to wastes resulting from the treatment and disposal of transformers and miscellaneous electrical equipment at a site located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (the Metal Bank of America site). Several of the PRPs, including PECO, formed a steering committee to investigate the nature and extent of possible involvement in this matter. On May 29, 1991, a Consent Order was issued by the EPA pursuant to which the members of the steering committee agreed to perform the remedial investigation and feasibility study as described in the work plan issued with the Consent Order. PECOs share of the cost of study was approximately 30%. On July 19, 1995, the EPA issued a proposed plan for remediation of the site, which involves removal of contaminated soil, sediment and groundwater and which the EPA estimated would cost approximately $17 million to implement. On June 26, 1998, the EPA issued an order to the non de minimis PRP group members, and others, including the owner, to implement the remedial design (RD) and remedial action (RA) (Order). The PRP group has conducted the RD and submitted to the EPA the revised final design (Final Design) on January 15, 2003. During the design process the PRP group proposed certain revisions to the EPAs preferred remedy, in response to which the EPA has issued two Explanations of Significant Differences (ESD) that are expected to reduce the costs of the preferred remedy. The Final Design estimates the cost to implement the RA to range from $12 million to $15 million. At this time, Exelon cannot predict with reasonable certainty the actual cost of the final remedy, who will implement the remedy, or the cost, if any, to the PRPs or any of its members, including Exelon. The ultimate cost to the PRPs and to Exelon will also depend upon the share of costs that is allocated to the owners and operators of the Metal Bank of America site in litigation that currently is pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. MGP Sites MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to 1950. ComEd generally did not operate MGPs as a corporate entity but did, however, acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities. Approximately half of these sites were transferred to Nicor Gas as part of a general conveyance in 1954. ComEd also acquired former MGP sites as vacant real estate on which ComEd facilities have been constructed. To date, ComEd has identified 43 former MGP sites for which it may be liable for remediation. Similarly, PECO has identified 28 sites where former MGP activities may have resulted in site contamination. With respect to these sites, ComEd and PECO are presently engaged in performing various levels of activities, including initial evaluation to determine the existence and nature of the contamination, detailed evaluation to determine the extent of the contamination and the necessity and possible methods of remediation, and implementation of remediation. ComEd and PECO are working closely with regulatory authorities in the various locations to develop and implement appropriate plans and schedules for evaluation, risk ranking, detailed study and remediation activities on an individual site and overall program basis. The status of each of the sites in the program varies and is reviewed periodically with the regulatory authorities. At December 31, 2002, ComEd and PECO had accrued $97 million and $28 million, respectively, for investigation and remediation of these MGP sites that currently can be reasonably estimated. ComEds reserve was increased by $17 million in the third quarter 2002 as the result of a delay in implementing the ongoing remediation for a MGP site in Oak Park, Illinois. ComEd and PECO believe that they could incur additional liabilities with respect to MGP sites, which cannot be reasonably estimated at 35 this time. ComEd and PECO have sued a number of insurance carriers seeking indemnity/coverage for remediation costs associated with these former MGP sites. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the EPA and the various State Environmental Agencies in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Illinois and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution. The Amendments include a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from electric power plants. Flue gas desulfurization systems (scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units other than the Keystone Station. Keystone is subject to, and in compliance with, the Phase II SO2 and NOx limits of the Amendments, which became effective January 1, 2000. Generation and the other Keystone co owners are purchasing SO2 emission allowances to comply with the Phase II limits. Generation has completed implementation of measures, including the installation of NOx emissions controls and the imposition of certain operational constraints, to comply with the Reasonably Available Control Technology limitations and the NOx Budget Program in the Ozone Transport Region (affecting facilities in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts). The EPA has issued two regulations to limit NOx emissions from power plants in the eastern United States to address the "ozone transport" issue. The first regulation was issued on September 24, 1998. The original NOxregulation covered power plants in the 22 eastern states and had an effective date of May 1, 2003. As a result of litigation at the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, the original NOx regulation was revised to cover 19 eastern states (rather than the original 22) and the effective date was delayed by approximately one year to May 31, 2004. In most other respects, the court substantively upheld the original NOx regulation. Massachusetts, Illinois and Pennsylvania power plants are covered by the original NOxregulation. The second EPA regulation, referred to as the "Section 126 Petition Regulation," was issued on May 25, 1999. This regulation was issued by the EPA in response to downwind state (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont) complaints under Section 126 of the Clean Air Act that upwind state NOx emissions were negatively impacting downwind states ability to attain the Federal ozone standard. The Section 126 Petition Regulation requires substantively the same NOx reduction requirement for the power generation sector as the original NOx regulation. However, the Section 126 Petition Regulation covers a more limited number of states (Delaware, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Virginia and West Virginia). It does not cover power plants in Illinois. The compliance date of the Section 126 Petition Regulation, originally set for May 1, 2003, was tolled by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals pending resolution of several issues. Despite this delay, the northeast states covered by the Section 126 Petition Regulation are still expected to comply with the original May 1, 2003 compliance date. On September 23, 2000, Pennsylvania issued final state NOxreduction regulations for power plants that satisfy both the original NOx regulation and the Section 126 Petition Regulation. Regulations are also in place in Massachusetts and Illinois. The Pennsylvania and Massachusetts regulations are effective on May 1, 2003. Exelon has evaluated options for compliance and is installing controls on the two coal units at Eddystone Generating Station (Selective Non Catalytic Reduction) and the two coal units (Selective Catalytic Reduction) at Keystone Generating Station. In Massachusetts, an Air Quality Improvement Plan is in place for the Mystic Generating Station for compliance with the Massachusettss multi pollutant regulations. The plan includes restrictions to residual fuel oil consumption on units 4, 5 and 6; management of low sulfur fuels on unit 7, and dry low NOx combustors, Selective Catalytic Reduction and CO Oxidation Catalyst on the new gas fired units 8 and 9 that will achieve commercial operation in 2003. The Exelon NOx 36 compliance program will be supplemented with the purchase of additional NOx allowances on an as needed basis. The eight new peaking units commissioned during 2002 at the SE Chicago Generating Station are equipped with NOx controls that meet requirements for new sources. The Exelon generating stations in the Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) area are required to comply with the DFW NOx State Implementation Plan (SIP) that commences on May 1, 2003, with full implementation on May 1, 2005. Additionally, beginning May 1, 2003 these plants must comply with the Emission Banking and Trading of Allowances (EBTA) program established by the enactment of Senate Bill 7 during the 76th Texas Legislative session for the purpose of achieving substantial reductions in NOx from grandfathered Electric Generating Facilities (EGFs). To comply with both the DFW NOx SIP and EBTA program, Exelon has embarked on a plan to install NOx control equipment on several of the units at the Handley and Mountain Creek generating stations Many other provisions of the Amendments affect activities of Exelons business, primarily Generation. The Amendments establish stringent control measures for geographical regions which have been determined by the EPA to not meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards; establish limits on the purchase and operation of motor vehicles and require increased use of alternative fuels; establish stringent controls on emissions of toxic air pollutants and provide for possible future designation of some utility emissions as toxic; establish new permit and monitoring requirements for sources of air emissions; and provide for significantly increased enforcement power, and civil and criminal penalties. Several other legislative and regulatory proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including utility units, are under active consideration. Exelon is unable at this time to ascertain which proposals may take effect, what requirements they may contain, or how they may affect Exelons business. At this time, Exelon can provide no assurance that these proposals if adopted will not have a significant effect on Exelons operations and costs. Costs At December 31, 2002, ComEd, PECO and Generation accrued $101 million, $40 million and $15 million, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation. These costs include approximately $97 million at ComEd and $28 million at PECO for former MGP sites as described above. ComEd and PECO cannot currently predict whether they will incur other significant liabilities for additional investigation and remediation costs at sites presently identified or additional sites which may be identified by ComEd and PECO, environmental agencies or others or whether all such costs will be recoverable through rates or from third parties. The budgets for expenditures in 2003 at ComEd, PECO and Generation for compliance with environmental requirements total approximately $47 million, $5 million and $2 million, respectively. In addition, ComEd, PECO and Generation may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities ComEd Transitional Funding Trust (ComEd Funding Trust), a Delaware business trust, was formed on October 28, 1998, pursuant to a trust agreement among First Union Trust Company, National Association, now Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Delaware trustee, and two individual trustees appointed by ComEd. ComEd Funding Trust was created for the sole purpose of issuing transitional funding notes to securitize intangible transition property granted to ComEd Funding LLC, a ComEd affiliate, by an ICC order issued July 21, 1998. On December 16, 1998, ComEd Funding Trust issued $3.4 billion of transitional funding notes, the proceeds of which were used to purchase the intangible transition property held by ComEd Funding LLC. ComEd Funding LLC transferred the proceeds to ComEd where they were used, among other things, to repurchase outstanding debt and equity securities of ComEd. The transitional funding notes are solely obligations of ComEd Funding Trust and are secured by the intangible transition property, which represents the right to receive instrument funding charges collected from ComEds customers. The instrument funding charges represent a nonbypassable, usage based, per kWh charge on designated consumers of electricity. 37  ComEd Financing I, a Delaware business trust, was formed by ComEd on July 21, 1995. ComEd Financing I was created solely for the purpose of issuing $200 million of trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities issued on September 26, 1995, carry an annual distribution rate of 8.48% and are mandatorily redeemable on September 30, 2035. The sole assets of ComEd Financing I are $206.2 million principal amount of 8.48% subordinated deferrable interest notes due September 30, 2035, issued by ComEd. On February 14, 2003, ComEd called $200 million of its trust preferred securities at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest to the March 20, 2003 redemption date. The preferred securities were refinanced with trust preferred securities (see ComEd Financing III below). Similarly, ComEd Financing II, a Delaware business trust, was formed by ComEd on November 20, 1996. ComEd Financing II was created solely for the purpose of issuing $150 million of trust capital securities. The trust capital securities were issued on January 24, 1997, carry an annual distribution rate of 8.50% and are mandatorily redeemable on January 15, 2027. The sole assets of ComEd Financing II are $154.6 million principal amount of 8.50% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due January 15, 2027, issued by ComEd. ComEd Financing III, a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by ComEd on September 5, 2002. ComEd Financing III was created for the sole purpose of issuing and selling preferred and common securities. On March 17, 2003, ComEd Financing III issued $200 million of trust preferred securities, carrying an annual distribution rate of 6.35%, which are mandatorily redeemable on March 15, 2033. The sole assets of ComEd Financing III are $206.2 million principal amount of 6.35% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due March 15, 2033, issued by ComEd. The preferred securities were used to refinance the preferred securities of ComEd Financing I. PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), a Delaware business trust wholly owned by PECO, was formed on June 23, 1998 pursuant to a trust agreement between PECO, as grantor, First Union Trust Company, National Association, now Wachovia Bank, National Association, as issuer trustee, and two beneficiary trustees appointed by PECO. PETT was created for the sole purpose of issuing transition bonds to securitize a portion of PECOs authorized stranded cost recovery. On March 25, 1999, PETT issued $4 billion of its Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. On May 2, 2000, PETT issued $1 billion of its Series 2000 A Transition Bonds and on March 1, 2001, PETT issued $805 million of its Series 2001 A Transition Bonds to refinance a portion of the Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. The Transition Bonds are solely obligations of PETT secured by intangible transition property, representing the right to collect transition charges sufficient to pay the principal and interest on the Transition Bonds, sold by PECO to PETT. PECO Energy Capital Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of PECO, is the sole general partner of PECO Energy Capital, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (Partnership). The Partnership was created solely for the purpose of issuing preferred securities, representing limited partnership interests and lending the proceeds thereof to PECO and entering into similar financing arrangements. The loans to PECO are evidenced by PECOs subordinated debentures (Subordinated Debentures), which are the only assets of the Partnership. The only revenues of the Partnership are interest on the Subordinated Debentures. All of the operating expenses of the Partnership are paid by PECO Energy Capital Corp. As of December 31, 2002, the Partnership held $128 million aggregate principal amount of the Subordinated Debentures. PECO Energy Capital Trust II (Trust II) was created in June 1997 as a Delaware business trust solely for the purpose of issuing trust receipts (Trust II Receipts) each representing an 8.00% Cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Security, Series C (Series C Preferred Securities) of the Partnership. The Partnership is the sponsor of Trust II. As of December 31, 2002, Trust II had outstanding 2,000,000 Trust II Receipts. At December 31, 2002, the assets of Trust II consisted solely of 2,000,000 Series C Preferred Securities with an aggregate stated liquidation preference of $50 million. 38 Distributions were made on the Trust II Receipts during 2002 in the aggregate amount of $4 million. Expenses of Trust II for 2002 were approximately $14,000, all of which were paid by PECO Energy Capital Corp. The Trust II Receipts are issued in book entry only form. PECO Energy Capital Trust III (Trust III) was created in April 1998 as a Delaware business trust solely for the purpose of issuing trust receipts (Trust III Receipts) each representing an 7.38% Cumulative Preferred Security, Series D (Series D Preferred Securities) of the Partnership. The Partnership is the sponsor of Trust III. As of December 31, 2002, Trust III had outstanding 78,105 Trust III Receipts. At December 31, 2002, the assets of Trust III consisted solely of 78,105 Series D Preferred Securities with an aggregate stated liquidation preference of $78 million. Distributions were made on Trust III Receipts during 2002 in the aggregate amount of $6 million. Expenses of Trust III for 2001 were approximately $14,000, all of which were paid by PECO Energy Capital Corp. The Trust III Receipts are issued in book entry only form. Executive Officers of the Registrants at December 31, 2002 Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 57 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Kingsley Jr., Oliver D. 60 Senior Executive Vice President McLean, Ian P. 53 Executive Vice President Mehrberg, Randall E. 47 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Moler, Elizabeth A. 53 Executive Vice President Shapard, Robert S. 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Strobel, Pamela B. 50 Executive Vice President Clark, Frank M. 57 Senior Vice President Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 48 Senior Vice President Gilmore Jr., George H. 53 Senior Vice President Lawrence, Kenneth G. 55 Senior Vice President Mitchell, J. Barry 54 Senior Vice President and Treasurer Skolds, John L. 52 Senior Vice President Snodgrass, S. Gary 51 Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Woods, David W. 45 Senior Vice President Hilzinger, Matthew F. 39 Vice President and Corporate Controller Lewis, Charles P. 39 Vice President, Strategy and Development, Generation ComEd Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 57 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon and Director Strobel, Pamela B. 50 Chair Shapard, Robert S. 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon* Clark, Frank M. 57 President and Director Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 48 Director Lawrence, Kenneth G. 55 Director Dudkin, Gregory N. 45 Executive Vice President, Operations Berdelle, Robert E. 46 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer* *As a result of a reorganization of Exelons finance function, Mr. Shapard became the principal financial officer of ComEd as of January 22, 2003. 39 PECO Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 57 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon and Director Strobel, Pamela B. 50 Chair Shapard, Robert S. 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon* Lawrence, Kenneth G. 55 President and Director Frankowski, Frank F. 52 Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer* Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 48 Director OBrien, Denis P. 43 Executive Vice President *As a result of a reorganization of Exelons finance function, Mr. Shapard became the principal financial officer of PECO as of January 22, 2003. Each of the above was elected as an officer effective October 20, 2000, the closing date of the Merger, except for Randall E. Mehrberg, who was elected effective December 1, 2000, Robert E. Berdelle, who was elected effective October 11, 2001, Frank F. Frankowski, who was elected effective October 22, 2001, George H. Gilmore Jr., who was elected effective December 3, 2001, Matthew F. Hilzinger, who was elected effective April 1, 2002, and Robert S. Shapard, who was elected effective October 21, 2002. Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective companys board of directors until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Rowe was President and Co Chief Executive of Exelon, Co Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and President, Co Chief Executive Officer of PECO; Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and Unicom; and President and Chief Executive Officer of New England Electric System. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Kingsley was Executive Vice President of Exelon; Executive Vice President of ComEd and Unicom, President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Nuclear Generation Group of ComEd, and Chief Nuclear Officer of the Tennessee Valley Authority. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Senior Vice President of Exelon; President of the Power Team division of PECO; and Group Vice President of Engelhard Corporation. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mehrberg was Senior Vice President of Exelon; an equity partner with the law firm of Jenner & Block; and General Counsel and Lakefront Director of the Chicago Park District. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Moler was Senior Vice President, Government Affairs and Policy of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Director of Unicom and ComEd; Partner at the law firm of Vinson & Elkins, LLP; Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy; and Chair of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Shapard was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Covanta Energy Corporation; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ultramar Diamond Shamrock; Chief Executive Officer of TSU Australia, Ltd., and Vice President, Finance and Treasurer at TXU. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Strobel was Vice Chairman of ComEd; Vice Chairman of PECO; Executive Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd and Unicom; Senior 40 Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Clark was Senior Vice President, Distribution Customer and Marketing Services and External Affairs of ComEd; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd; Governmental Affairs Vice President; and Governmental Affairs Manager. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Gillis was Chief Financial Officer of Exelon, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President and Treasurer of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the University of Chicago Hospitals and Health System; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of American National Bank and Trust Company. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Gilmore was Group President for National Service Industries, Inc.; President and Chief Operating Officer of Calmat Company; and President of Moore Document Solutions and Moore Business Systems. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Lawrence was Senior Vice President, Distribution of PECO; Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of PECO; and Vice President, Gas Operations division of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mitchell was Vice President and Treasurer of Exelon; and Vice President, Treasury and Evaluation, and Treasurer of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Skolds was Chief Operating Officer of Exelon Nuclear; and President and Chief Operating Officer of South Carolina Electric and Gas. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Snodgrass was Chief Human Resources Officer of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President of USG Corporation. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Woods was Senior Vice President, Corporate and Public Affairs of PECO; and the Chief of Staff for the Pennsylvania Senate Majority Leader. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Credit Acceptance Corporation; Vice President, Controller of Kmart Corporation; Divisional Vice President, Strategic Planning and Financial Reporting of Kmart Corporation; Assistant Treasurer of Kmart Corporation; and Divisional Vice President, Logistics Finance and Planning of Kmart Corporation. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Lewis was Vice President Finance, PECO; Director Nuclear Planning and Development of PECO; and Director of Corporate Development PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Dudkin was Vice President Customer and Marketing Services of PECO; and Vice President Power Delivery of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. OBrien was Vice President of Operations of PECO; Director of Transmission and Substations of PECO; and Director of Bucksmont Region of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position Mr. Frankowski was Controller of PECO Energy Company; Manager, Accounting and Control of PECO Energy; and Director Taxes of PECO Energy Company. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Berdelle was Vice President and Comptroller of Unicom and ComEd; Comptroller of Unicom and ComEd; and Manager of Financial Reporting of Unicom and ComEd. 41  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Energy Delivery The electric substations and a portion of the transmission rights of way of ComEd and PECO are owned in fee. A significant portion of the electric transmission and distribution facilities is located over or under highways, streets, other public places or property owned by others, for which permits, grants, easements or licenses, deemed satisfactory by ComEd and PECO, respectively, but without examination of underlying land titles, have been obtained. Transmission and Distribution Energy Deliverys higher voltage electric transmission and distribution lines owned and in service are as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles ComEd 765,000 345,000 138,000 90 2,539 2,431 PECO 500,000 220,000 132,000 66,000 297 496 226 168 ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,100 circuit miles of overhead lines and 30,500 circuit miles of underground lines. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,890 circuit miles of overhead lines and 8,215 circuit miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2002: Pipeline Miles Transmission 31 Distribution 6,275 Service piping 5,186 Total 11,492 PECO has a LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200,000 million cubic feet (mmcf) and a send out capacity of 157,000 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25,000 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. Mortgages The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first mortgage bonds are issued. 42 Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2002: Station Location No. of Units Percent Owned(1) Primary Fuel Type Dispatch Type Net Generation Capacity(MW)(2) Nuclear(3) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,413 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,393 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,728 LaSalle County Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,325 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,316 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,130 (4) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,311 (4) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 931 (4) 14,547 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (4) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Base load 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 250 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Base load 581 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley Fort Worth, TX 5 Gas Peaking/Intermediate 1,441 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (4) Mountain Creek Dallas, TX 5 Gas Peaking/Intermediate 893 Mystic Everett, MA 4 Oil/Gas Intermediate 995 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Gas Intermediate 380 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Unit Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (4) 6,616 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 380 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 37 LaPorte LaPorte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 160 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Mystic CT Everett, MA 1 Oil Peaking 12 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Gas Peaking 20 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (4) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 South East Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 350 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 West Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil Peaking 165 1,581 (continued on next page) 43 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (4) Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (4) 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydro Base load 512 Muddy Run Lancaster Co., PA 8 Hydro Intermediate 1,072 1,584 Under Construction Mystic 8 Everett, MA 1 Gas 807 Mystic 9 Everett, MA 1 Gas 807 Fore River Weymouth, MA 1 Oil/Gas 807 2,421 Total 130 26,762 (1)100%, unless otherwise indicated. (2)For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (3)All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron and Salem, which are pressurized water reactors. (4)Generations portion. The net generating capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For information regarding nuclear insurance, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition and results of operations.  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon Securities Litigation. Between May 8 and June 14, 2002, several class action lawsuits were filed in the Federal District Court in Chicago asserting nearly identical securities law claims on behalf of purchasers of Exelon securities between April 24, 2001 and September 27, 2001 (Class Period). The complaints allege that Exelon violated Federal securities laws by issuing a series of materially false and misleading statements relating to its 2001 earnings expectations during the Class Period. The court consolidated the pending cases into one lawsuit and has appointed two lead plaintiffs as well as lead counsel. On October 1, 2002, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. In addition to the original claims, this complaint contains allegations of new facts and contains several new theories of liability. Exelon believes the lawsuit is without merit and is vigorously contesting this matter. 44  ComEd Chicago Franchise. In March 1999, ComEd reached a settlement agreement with Chicago to end the arbitration proceeding between ComEd and Chicago regarding their January 1, 1992 franchise agreement. As part of the settlement agreement, ComEd and Chicago agreed to a revised combination of ongoing work under the franchise agreement and new initiatives that will result in defined transmission and distribution expenditures by ComEd to improve electric services in Chicago. The settlement agreement provides that ComEd would be subject to liquidated damages if the projects are not completed by various dates, unless it was prevented from doing so by events beyond its reasonable control. In addition, ComEd and Chicago established an Energy Reliability and Capacity Account, into which ComEd paid $25 million during each of the years 1999 through 2002, to help ensure an adequate and reliable electric supply for Chicago. No further payments by ComEd into the Energy Reliability and Capacity Account are required. On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years and be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. Under the terms of the Midwest Agreement, ComEd will receive from Midwest Generation $36 million over ten years, $22 million of which was received on February 20, 2003, to relieve Midwest Generations obligation under the fossil sale agreement. Midwest Generation will also assume from Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement which Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC (CET), which is effective through June 2012. ComEd will reimburse Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement and will pay approximately $2 million for amounts owed to CET by Chicago at the time the agreement is executed. The net effect of the settlement to ComEd will be amortized over the remaining life of the franchise agreement with Chicago. FERC Municipal Request for Refund. Three of ComEds wholesale municipal customers filed a complaint and request for refund with FERC, alleging that ComEd failed to properly adjust its rates, as provided for under the terms of the electric service contracts with the municipal customers and to track certain refunds made to ComEds retail customers in the years 1992 through 1994. In the third quarter of 1998, FERC granted the complaint and directed that refunds be made, with interest. ComEd filed a request for rehearing. On April 30, 2001, FERC issued an order granting rehearing in which it determined that its 1998 order had been erroneous and that no refunds were due from ComEd to the municipal customers. In August 2001, each of the three wholesale municipal customers appealed the April 30, 2001 FERC order to the Federal circuit court, which consolidated the appeals for the purposes of briefing and decision. The Federal circuit court has stayed the proceedings pending settlement negotiations among the parties. Retail Rate Law. In 1996, several developers of non utility generating facilities filed litigation against various Illinois officials claiming that the enforcement against those facilities of an amendment to Illinois law removing the entitlement of those facilities to state subsidized payments for electricity sold to ComEd after March 15, 1996 violated their rights under the Federal and state constitutions. The developers also filed suit against ComEd for a declaratory judgment that their rights under their contracts with ComEd were not affected by the amendment. On November 25, 2002, the court granted developers motions for summary judgment. The judge also entered a permanent injunction enjoining ComEd from refusing to pay the retail rate on the grounds of the amendment, and Illinois from denying ComEd a tax credit on account of such purchases. ComEd and Illinois have each appealed the ruling. ComEd believes that it did not breach the contracts in question and that the damages claimed far exceed any loss that any project incurred by reason of its ineligibility for the subsidized rate. ComEd intends to prosecute its appeal and defend each case vigorously. 45 Service Interruptions. In August 1999, three class action lawsuits were filed against ComEd, and subsequently consolidated, in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois seeking damages for personal injuries, property damage and economic losses related to a series of service interruptions that occurred in the summer of 1999. The combined effect of these interruptions resulted in over 168,000 customers losing service for more than four hours. Conditional class certification was approved by the court for the sole purpose of exploring settlement. ComEd filed a motion to dismiss the complaints. On April 24, 2001, the court dismissed four of the five counts of the consolidated complaint without prejudice and the sole remaining count was dismissed in part. On June 1, 2001, the plaintiffs filed a second amended consolidated complaint and ComEd has filed an answer. On December 5, 2002, a settlement was reached, pending court approval, whereby ComEd will pay up to $8 million, which includes $4 million paid to date. The settlement, when approved, will release ComEd from all claims arising from the 1999 power outages. A portion of any settlement or verdict may be covered by insurance. PECO None. Generation Godley Park District Litigation. On April 18, 2001, the Godley Park District filed suit in Will County Circuit Court against ComEd and Generation alleging that oil spills at Braidwood Station have contaminated the Park Districts water supply. The complaint sought actual damages, punitive damages of $100 million and statutory penalties. The court dismissed all counts seeking punitive damages and statutory penalties, and the plaintiff has filed an amended complaint before the court. The amended complaint added counts under the Illinois Public Utility Act (PUA), which provides for statutory penalties and allows recovery of attorneys fees. On November 8, 2002, the Godley Park District voluntarily dismissed its lawsuit. Cotter Corporation Litigation. During 1989 and 1991, actions were brought in Federal and state courts in Colorado against ComEd and its subsidiary, Cotter Corporation (Cotter), seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief based on allegations that Cotter permitted radioactive and other hazardous material to be released from its mill into areas owned or occupied by the plaintiffs, resulting in property damage and potential adverse health effects. In 1994, a Federal jury returned nominal dollar verdicts against Cotter on eight plaintiffs claims in the 1989 cases, which verdicts were upheld on appeal. The remaining claims in the 1989 actions were settled or dismissed. In 1998, a jury verdict was rendered against Cotter in favor of 14 of the plaintiffs in the 1991 cases, totaling approximately $6 million in compensatory and punitive damages, interest and medical monitoring. On appeal, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the jury verdict, and remanded the case for new trial. These plaintiffs cases were consolidated with the remaining 26 plaintiffs cases, which had not been tried. The consolidated trial was completed on June 28, 2001. The jury returned a verdict against Cotter and awarded $16 million in various damages. On November 20, 2001, the District Court entered an amended final judgment that included an award of both pre judgment and post judgment interests, costs, and medical monitoring expenses that total $43 million. In November 2000, another trial involving a separate sub group of 13 plaintiffs, seeking $19 million in damages plus interest was completed in Federal District Court in Denver. The jury awarded nominal damages of $42,500 to 11 of 13 plaintiffs, but awarded no damages for any personal injury or health claims, other than requiring Cotter to perform periodic medical monitoring at minimal cost. Cotter appealed these judgments to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. Cotter is vigorously contesting the awards. On February 18, 2000, ComEd sold Cotter to an unaffiliated third party. As part of the sale, ComEd agreed to indemnify Cotter for any liability incurred by Cotter as a result of these actions, as well as any liability arising in connection with the West Lake Landfill discussed in the next paragraph. 46 In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, the responsibility to indemnify Cotter for any liability related to these matters was transferred by ComEd to Generation. The EPA has advised Cotter that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. Cotter is alleged to have disposed of approximately 39,000 tons of soils mixed with 8,700 tons of leached barium sulfate at the site. Cotter, along with three other companies identified by the EPA as PRPs, has submitted, a draft feasibility study addressing options for remediation of the site. The PRPs are also engaged in discussions with the State of Missouri and the EPA. The estimated costs of remediation for the site range from $0 to $87 million. Once a remedy is selected, it is expected that the PRPs will agree on an allocation of responsibility for the costs. Until an agreement is reached, Generation cannot predict its share of the costs. Raytheon Arbitration. In March 2001, two subsidiaries of Sithe New England Holdings acquired in November 2002, brought an action in the New York Supreme Court against Raytheon Corporation (Raytheon) relating to its failure to honor its guaranty with respect to the performance of the Mystic and Fore River projects, as a result of the abandonment of the projects by the turnkey contractor. In a related proceeding, in May 2002, Raytheon submitted claims to the International Chamber of Commerce Court of Arbitration seeking equitable relief and damages for alleged owner caused performance delays in connection with the Fore River Power Plant Engineering, Procurement & Construction Agreement (EPC Agreement). The EPC Agreement, executed by a Raytheon subsidiary and guaranteed by Raytheon, governs the design, engineering, construction, start up, testing and delivery of an 800 MW combined cycle power plant in Weymouth, Massachusetts. Raytheon recently amended its claim and now seeks 141 days of schedule relief (which would reduce Raytheons liquidated damage payment for late delivery by approximately $25 million) and additional damages of $16 million. Raytheon also has asserted a claim for loss of efficiency and productivity as a result of an alleged constructive acceleration, for which a claim has not yet been quantified. Generation believes the Raytheon assertions are without merit and is vigorously contesting these claims. Hearings by the International Chamber of Commerce Court of Arbitration with respect to liability were held in January and February 2003. A decision on liability is expected to be issued in May 2003 and, if necessary, additional hearings will be held on damages in May and June of 2003. Real Estate Tax Appeals. Generation is involved in tax appeals regarding a number of its nuclear facilities, Limerick Generating Station (Montgomery County, PA), Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station (York County, PA) and Quad Cities Station (Rock Island County, IL). The tax appeal relating to one of its fossil facilities, Eddystone (Delaware County, PA), was resolved during 2002. Generation is also involved in the tax appeal for Three Mile Island (Dauphin County, PA) through AmerGen. Generation does not believe the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. General Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are involved in various other litigation matters. The ultimate outcome of such matters, as well as the matters discussed above, while uncertain, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on their respective financial condition or results of operations.  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, ComEd and PECO None. 47  PART II  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Exelon The information required by this Item with respect to market information relating to Exelons common stock is incorporated herein by reference to "Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters" in Exhibit 99 2 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. ComEd As of March 1, 2003, there were outstanding 127,016,425 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At March 1, 2003, in addition to Exelon, there were approximately 280 holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. PECO As of March 1, 2003, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Dividends Under PUHCA, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. Similar restrictions also apply to ComEd under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. However, the SEC has authorized ComEd, and to Exelon, to the extent Exelon receives dividends from ComEd paid from ComEd additional paid in capital, to pay up to $500 million in dividends out of additional paid in capital, although Exelon may not pay dividends out of paid in capital after December 31, 2002 if its common equity is less than 30% of its total capitalization. At December 31, 2002, Exelon had retained earnings of $2.0 billion, which includes ComEds retained earnings of $577 million, PECOs retained earnings of $401 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $924 million. To date, Generation has not declared or paid dividends. See ComEd and PECO sections in this item for a further discussion of ComEd and PECO dividend restrictions. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends paid during 2002 and 2001: 2002 2001 4th Quarter 3rd Quarter 2nd Quarter 1st Quarter 4th Quarter 3rd Quarter 2nd Quarter 1st Quarter (per share) Exelon $ 0.44 $ 0.44 $ 0.44 $ 0.44 $ 0.43 $ 0.42 $ 0.42 $ 0.55 (1) (1)Exelon did not pay any cash dividends in 2000. The first quarter dividend in 2001 was a pro rata dividend. Unicom and PECO each paid their shareholders pro rata, per diem dividends from their last regular dividend dates through October 19, 2000. The first quarter of 2001 covered the 119 day period from the date of the Merger, through the February 15, 2001 record date. 48 The following table sets forth ComEd and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2002 2001 4th Quarter 3rd Quarter 2nd Quarter 1st Quarter 4th Quarter 3rd Quarter 2nd Quarter 1st Quarter (in millions) ComEd $ 117 $ 118 $ 117 $ 118 $ 230 $ 105 $ 85 $ 63 PECO $ 85 $ 85 $ 85 $ 85 $ 173 $ 69 $ 55 $ 45 On January 28, 2003, the Board of Directors of Exelon declared a quarterly dividend of $0.46 per share of Exelons common stock. This increase of $0.08 per share annually will result in an annual dividend rate of $1.84 per share. Exelon intends to grow its dividend over time at a rate of approximately 4% to 5%, commensurate with long term earnings growth. The payment of future dividends is subject to approval and declaration by the Board of Directors each quarter. ComEd may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities which were issued to ComEd Financing I, ComEd Financing II and ComEd Financing III (the Financing Trusts); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of the Financing Trusts; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities). PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2002, such capital was $2.4 billion and amounted to about 17 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $137 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) PECO exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the Subordinated Debentures which were issued to the Partnership; (2) PECO defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series C or Series D Preferred Securities of the Partnership; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the Subordinated Debentures are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities).  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to "Selected Financial Data" in Exhibit 99 1 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. 49 ComEd The selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from the audited financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein. The information for the year ended 2000 is presented for the periods before and after the Merger. For additional information, see ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd, Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For the Years Ended December 31, For the Years Ended December 31, Oct. 20 Dec. 31 2000 Jan. 1 Oct. 19 2000 2002 2001 1999 1998 (in millions) Statement of Income Data: I Operating Revenues $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ 1,310 I $ 5,702 $ 6,793 $ 7,150 Operating Income 1,766 1,594 338 I 1,048 1,549 1,387 Net Income 790 607 133 I 599 623 594 Net Income on Common Stock 790 607 133 I 596 599 537 December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Balance Sheet Data: I Current Assets $ 1,049 $ 1,025 $ 2,172 I $ 4,045 $ 4,974 Property, Plant and Equipment, net 7,744 7,351 7,657 I 11,993 13,300 Goodwill, net 4,916 4,902 4,766 I Other Deferred Debits and Other Assets 2,121 2,349 5,603 I 6,538 6,583 I Total Assets $ 15,830 $ 15,627 $ 20,198 I $ 22,576 $ 24,857 I Current Liabilities $ 2,023 $ 1,797 $ 1,723 I $ 3,427 $ 3,309 Long Term Debt 5,268 5,850 6,882 I 6,962 7,677 Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities 2,451 2,568 5,082 I 6,456 7,770 Mandatorily Redeemable Preference Stock I 69 171 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable I Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding I the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities 330 329 328 I 350 350 Shareholders Equity 5,758 5,083 6,183 I 5,312 5,580 I Total Liabilities and Shareholders Equity $ 15,830 $ 15,627 $ 20,198 I $ 22,576 $ 24,857 I 50 PECO The selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from the audited financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein. For the Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Statement of Income Data: Operating Revenues $ 4,333 $ 3,965 $ 5,950 $ 5,478 $ 5,325 Operating Income 1,093 999 1,222 1,373 1,268 Income before Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle $ 486 $ 425 $ 483 $ 582 $ 513 Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle (net of income taxes) 24 Net Income $ 486 $ 425 $ 507 $ 582 $ 513 Net Income on Common Stock $ 478 $ 415 $ 497 $ 570 $ 500 December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 (in millions) Balance Sheet Data: Current Assets $ 927 $ 813 $ 1,779 $ 1,221 $ 582 Property, Plant and Equipment, net 4,179 4,057 5,158 5,004 4,804 Deferred Debits and Other Assets 5,614 5,868 7,839 6,862 6,662 Total Assets $ 10,720 $ 10,738 $ 14,776 $ 13,087 $ 12,048 Current Liabilities $ 1,576 $ 1,335 $ 2,974 $ 1,286 $ 1,735 Long Term Debt 4,951 5,438 6,002 5,969 2,920 Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities 3,304 3,358 3,860 3,738 3,756 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities 128 128 128 128 349 Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Stock 19 37 56 93 Shareholders Equity 761 460 1,775 1,910 3,195 Total Liabilities and Shareholders Equity $ 10,720 $ 10,738 $ 14,776 $ 13,087 $ 12,048 51 Generation The selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from the audited financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein. For the Years Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Statement of Income Data: Operating Revenues $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 3,274 $ 2,425 Operating Income 509 872 441 300 Income before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles $ 387 $ 512 $ 260 $ 204 Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles (net of income taxes) 13 12 Net Income (Loss) $ 400 $ 524 $ 260 $ 204 December 31, 2002 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Balance Sheet Data: Current Assets $ 1,805 $ 1,435 $ 1,793 $ 395 Property, Plant and Equipment, net 4,800 2,003 1,727 990 Deferred Debits and Other Assets 4,402 4,700 4,742 907 Total Assets $ 11,007 $ 8,138 $ 8,262 $ 2,292 Current Liabilities $ 2,663 $ 1,097 $ 2,176 $ 404 Long Term Debt 2,132 1,021 205 209 Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities 3,259 3,212 3,271 729 Minority Interest 54 Members Equity 2,899 2,808 2,610 950 Total Liabilities and Members Equity $ 11,007 $ 8,138 $ 8,262 $ 2,292 The consolidated financial statements of Generation as of December 31, 2000 and for the year then ended present the financial position, results of operations and net cash flows of the generation related business of Exelon prior to its corporate restructuring on January 1, 2001. Generation operated as a separate business subsequent to electric industry restructuring in Pennsylvania effective January 1, 1999. Prior to that date, Exelon (and its predecessor, PECO) operated as a fully integrated electric and gas utility, and revenues and expenses were not separately identified in the accounting records 52   ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. ComEd, PECO and Generation Each Critical Accounting Estimate and New Accounting Pronouncement section presented below indicates the registrant or registrants to which each estimate or accounting standard is applicable. "We" or "Our" as utilized in the Critical Accounting Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncements sections is defined as the business units identified in each subheading. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these estimates and assumptions with its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on management decisions. Management believes that the following areas require significant management judgment in making estimates and assumptions to describe matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (ComEd, PECO and Generation) We use derivative financial instruments primarily to manage commodity price and interest rate risks. In connection with our Risk Management Policy (RMP), we: use financial derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to our variable rate debt instruments, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances prior to their actual issuance and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt which we are planning to retire early, enter into derivatives to manage the physical and financial risks associated with our energy supply and load obligations, and enter into energy related derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Our derivative activities are subject to the management, direction, and control of our Risk Management Committee (RMC). The RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives, and establishes procedures for control, valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of our activities in derivative markets and the performance of our derivative contracts. We make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the changes in the fair value we expect in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. We account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133. To the extent that changes in SFAS No. 133 modify current guidance, including the standards for determining whether contracts can be accounted for as normal purchases and normal sales, the accounting treatment for derivatives may change. 53 We are required under SFAS No. 133 to record derivative instruments at fair value. Depending on the designation of the derivative, the fair value is either recorded in the income statement or as a component of other comprehensive income in shareholders equity (OCI). We use quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, we use internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific energy market the energy is being purchased in using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. We use the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. To determine the fair value of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements we use external broker quotes or calculate the fair value internally using the Bloomberg swap valuation tool. This tool uses the most recent market inputs and a widely accepted valuation methodology. During 2002, Generation recognized unrealized and realized net gains of $6 million and $20 million, respectively, relating to mark to market adjustments of certain non trading purchased power and sale contracts pursuant to SFAS No. 133 and unrealized and realized net losses aggregating $9 million and $20 million, respectively, relating to mark to market adjustments of derivative instruments entered into for trading purposes. Hedge Accounting. As part of our energy marketing business, we enter into contracts to purchase or sell electricity, gas and ancillary products such as transmission rights, congestion credits and emission allowances, using contracts that are considered derivatives under SFAS No. 133. Certain of these derivatives qualify as hedge transactions. A derivative instrument can be designated as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge) or a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge). To qualify for hedge accounting, the fair value changes in the derivative must be expected to offset 80% 120% of the changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge and is highly effective, along with the gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge and is highly effective, are recorded in OCI, until earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows being hedged. Exelon continually assesses these cash flow hedges to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transaction is probable. At the point in time that the contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and the fair value of the derivative is recorded through earnings. Energy Contracts. We enter into contracts designated as cash flow hedges in which we manage the variability of our cash flows related to the purchase or sale of energy. At the initiation of the contract the contract is identified as a cash flow hedge, which requires us to determine whether the contract is in accordance with our RMP, that the forecasted future transaction is probable, and that the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of an energy contract designated as a hedge. An example of a contract that would qualify for hedge accounting would be a forward over the counter sales contract used to hedge an expected sale of generation exposed to market prices. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. We enter into interest rate swap contracts related to variable rate debt in order to convert the variable interest payments into fixed interest payments to manage the variability of cash flows. Additionally, we enter into forward starting interest rate swaps in order to lock 54 in an interest rate at a future date in anticipation of a future debt issuance to manage the variability of changes in interest rates between the date of the decision to issue and the actual date of issue. We also enter into interest rate swap contracts related to fixed rate debt in order to maintain our targeted percentage of variable rate debt. The fair value of derivatives generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the balance sheet date, thereby taking into account the current unrealized gains or losses of open contracts. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exemption. As part of our energy marketing business, we enter into contracts to purchase or sell electricity, gas and ancillary products such as transmission rights, congestion credits and emission allowances using contracts that are considered derivatives under SFAS No. 133. The majority of these contracts, however, qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales SFAS No. 133 exemption from mark to market accounting treatment as they are for the purchase and sale of energy to meet the requirements of our customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery in quantities we expect to use or sell over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. These contracts are reflected in the financial statements at the lower of cost or market, on a portfolio basis, using the accrual method of accounting. We did not have any loss contracts as of December 31, 2002. Under these contracts we recognize any gains or losses when the underlying physical transaction affects earnings. At the initiation of the contract, we make a determination as to whether or not the contract meets the criteria as a normal purchase or normal sale. An example of an energy contract that would qualify for the normal sale exemption would include a forward sale contract under which we expect to supply the full requirements of the counterparty. An example of a contract that would qualify for the normal purchase exemption would be an energy capacity contract that we enter into to satisfy the needs of our customer base, either retail or wholesale. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to specific contracts is based on a determination that at certain times excess generation is available for a forward sale and, similarly, a determination that at certain times generation supply will be insufficient to serve our load. The determination of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery is based on internal models that forecast customer demand and electricity supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. Significant changes in these assumptions could result in contracts being considered differently under SFAS No. 133 and the potential requirement of mark to market accounting. Proprietary Trading. As part of our energy trading operation, we enter into contracts to buy and sell energy for trading purposes. These contracts are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value and changes in the fair value are recognized through earnings. All proprietary trading activity is recorded net in revenue. Trading activities are a very small portion of Generations overall power marketing activities. The trading portfolio is subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, including volumetric and depression limits to manage exposure to market risk, as prescribed by the RMC. Non Trading Contracts. To manage our commodity risk exposure and meet our load requirements, we have also entered into non trading contracts that do not meet the definition in SFAS No. 133 of a normal purchase or normal sale or meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. These non trading contracts are marked to market when the underlying item affects earnings, with the gains and losses recorded in Purchased Power and Fuel expense. Non trading contracts are subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, as prescribed by the RMC. 55 Although we use derivative instruments to assist in managing commodity price and interest rate risks, we can still experience earnings volatility from period to period because of the risks associated with marketing and trading electricity and other energy related products. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities (ComEd and PECO) Energy Deliverys operating subsidiaries, ComEd and PECO, are regulated by their respective state regulatory commissions as well as by FERC. The regulators in Illinois and Pennsylvania, as well as FERC, use cost based rate structures to determine the rates we charge customers. In establishing cost based rates, the ICC and the PUC may consider the capital requirements and working capital needs to operate the distribution and transmission business, determine the operating cost levels that can be passed on to customers and provide for a reasonable return to our shareholders. In their determination of rates, the ICC and PUC may include allowable costs in periods other than the periods in which an unregulated entity would record the costs in the income statement. These costs are accounted for as either a regulatory asset or liability. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. Regulatory assets and liabilities are accounted for under SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" (SFAS No. 71). Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to our utility operations that meet the following criteria: the operations are subject to third party regulation of rates; the rates are cost based; and the assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates is appropriate and reasonable. If a separable portion of our business no longer meets these criteria, we are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of our business. Both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Current rates include the recovery of our existing regulatory assets. The most significant regulatory assets we have recorded are: Competitive Transition Charges: These charges represent PECOs stranded costs that the PUC determined would be allowed to be recoverable through regulated rates. These costs are related to the deregulation of the generation portion of the electric utility business in Pennsylvania. The unamortized balance of the CTC of $4.6 billion and $4.9 billion as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, was recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The CTC includes Intangible Transition Property sold to PECO Energy Transition Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of PECO, in connection with the securitization of PECOs stranded cost recovery. CTC is being amortized through December 31, 2010 with a rate of return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. See ITEM 1. Business General Energy Delivery Retail Electric Services PECO for additional discussion of CTC amortization. Recoverable Transition Costs: These charges, related to the recovery of ComEds former generating plants, are amortized based on the expected return on equity of ComEd in any given year. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $175 million and $277 million, respectively, in recoverable transition costs recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. ComEd expects to fully recover and amortize these charges by the end of 2006, but may increase or decrease its annual amortization to maintain its earnings within the earnings cap provisions established by Illinois legislation. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of recoverable transition cost amortization. Recoverable Deferred Income Taxes: These costs represent the difference between the method in which the regulator allows for the recovery of income taxes and how income taxes would be 56 recorded by unregulated entities. These recoverable deferred income taxes, recorded in compliance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," include the deferred tax effects associated principally with liberalized depreciation for PECO and excess deferred taxes and ITC amortization for ComEd. These amounts are accounted for in accordance with the ratemaking policies of the ICC and PUC, as well as the revenue impacts thereon, and assume continued recovery of these costs in future rates. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $(68) million and $26 million, respectively, in recoverable deferred income taxes recorded in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PECO had $729 million and $675 million, respectively, in recoverable deferred income taxes recorded in PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheets. Nuclear Decommissioning Costs for Retired Plants: These costs represent the amount of future nuclear decommissioning costs related to the retired former ComEd plants which are being recovered through rates. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $248 million and $310 million, respectively, in nuclear decommissioning costs for retired plants recorded in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. These costs will be recovered in rates and amortized on a straight line basis to earnings by the end of 2006. Reacquired Debt Costs and Interest Rate Swap Settlements: These costs relate to amounts paid to reacquire debt early and to settle interest rate hedges to mitigate interest rate risks and capitalize on lower interest rate debt. These amounts are deferred and amortized over the rate recovery period, which is over the life of the new debt issued to finance the debt redemption. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $84 million and $54 million, respectively, in reacquired debt costs and interest rate swap settlements recorded in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PECO had $53 million and $58 million, respectively, in reacquired debt costs recorded in PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheets. For each regulatory jurisdiction where we conduct business, we continually assess whether the regulatory assets continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets and liabilities would be recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could impact our ability to pay dividends under PUHCA. Because our current rates include the recovery of existing regulatory assets and liabilities, and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow us to earn a reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the states where we do business, but is subject to change in the future. Nuclear Decommissioning (Generation) We currently have direct ownership interests in 16 active nuclear generating units and four retired nuclear generating units. In addition, we own a 50% equity interest in AmerGen, which operates three active nuclear generating units. In connection with the operation of our nuclear units, the NRC requires us to begin decommissioning these facilities after their NRC operating license lives end, generally 40 years from the date of initial operation, and complete the decommissioning within 60 years after cessation of operation. Generation has, however, requested or is in the process of requesting the extension of these license lives for several nuclear generating stations. The decommissioning of a nuclear generating station involves the decontamination of structures and components, the removal of high level and 57 low level radioactive materials from the site for disposal at a licensed facility and for certain stations, the restoration of the station sites to a natural state. We estimate that, once started, decommissioning of a site can generally be completed in 10 years. Based on the projected extended license lives of our nuclear plants, we will begin decommissioning our plants from 2014 through 2056, with expenditures primarily occurring when our operating plants are decommissioned, during the period from 2029 through 2056. PECO and ComEd currently recover certain decommissioning costs in regulated rates. The amounts recovered are deposited in trust accounts and invested for funding of future decommissioning costs for active and inactive generating units. As part of the 2001 corporate restructuring, the generation related assets and liabilities of ComEd and PECO were transferred to Generation. The accounting for our receipt of decommissioning collections and recognition of decommissioning liabilities varies between the plants that were previously owned by ComEd or by PECO prior to restructuring. We account for the current periods cost of decommissioning related to generating plants previously owned by PECO by following regulatory accounting principles and recording a charge to depreciation expense and a corresponding liability in accumulated depreciation concurrent with decommissioning collections from rate payers. Our regulatory accounting principles for the generating stations previously owned by ComEd were discontinued when those stations were transferred to Generation. Those stations included both operating and retired units. For operating units, the difference between the current cost decommissioning estimate and the decommissioning liability recorded in accumulated depreciation is amortized to depreciation expense on a straight line basis over the remaining lives. For retired units, the current cost decommissioning estimate is recorded in deferred credits and other liabilities and accreted to depreciation expense. Under regulatory accounting principles, gains and losses on marketable securities held in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds are reported in accumulated depreciation. After regulatory accounting principles are discontinued, unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities held in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Realized gains and losses on decommissioning trust funds are reflected in other income and deductions in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Due to the sharp declines in the equity market since the third quarter of 2000, the value of our nuclear decommissioning trust funds has also decreased. In 2002, contributions to these trust funds of $112 million were offset by net realized and unrealized losses of $224 million, resulting in a 4% decrease in the trust funds balance at December 31, 2002 compared to December 31, 2001. We believe that the amounts that ComEd and PECO are recovering from customers through electric rates, along with the earnings on the trust funds, will be sufficient to fund our decommissioning obligations. Cost estimates for decommissioning our nuclear facilities have been prepared by an independent engineering firm and reflect currently existing regulatory requirements and available technology. Our current estimate of our nuclear facilities decommissioning cost is $7.4 billion in current year (2003) dollars. Calculating this estimate involves significant assumptions about the expected increases in decommissioning costs relative to general inflation rates, changes in the regulatory environment or regulatory requirements, and the timing of decommissioning. Significant changes in these assumptions could materially affect the liabilities and future costs related to decommissioning recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The estimated service life of the nuclear station is also a significant assumption because decommissioning and depreciation costs are generally recognized over the life of the generating station. In 2001, we extended nuclear station service lives, over which the decommissioning costs are recognized, by 20 years. Effective April 1, 2001, we extended the estimated service lives by 20 years for three nuclear stations. Effective July 1, 2001, we extended the estimated service lives by 20 years for the remainder of Generations operating nuclear stations. These changes were based on engineering 58 and economic feasibility studies we performed considering, among other things, future capital and maintenance expenditures at these plants. The service life extension is subject to NRC approval of an extension of existing NRC operating licenses. As a result of the change, net income for 2002 and 2001 increased approximately $132 million ($79 million, net of income taxes) and approximately $90 million ($60 million, net income taxes), respectively. Although we consider the service life extension authorization to be probable, if the extensions were denied, our results of operations would be adversely impacted by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. SFAS No. 143. The accounting for our nuclear decommissioning obligation will be affected by the adoption of SFAS No. 143, "Asset Retirement Obligations" (SFAS No. 143) effective January 1, 2003. SFAS No. 143 provides accounting requirements for retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. Retirement obligations associated with long lived assets included within the scope of SFAS No. 143 are those for which there is a legal obligation under existing or enacted law, statute, written or oral contract or by legal construction under the doctrine of promissory estoppel. The effect of this cumulative adjustment on nuclear decommissioning will be to change the decommissioning liability to reflect the fair value of the decommissioning obligation at the balance sheet date. Additionally, SFAS No. 143 will require the recording of an asset related to the decommissioning obligation, which will be amortized over the remaining lives of the plants. The net difference, between the asset recognized and the adjustment to the decommissioning liability, recorded upon adoption of SFAS No. 143 will be charged to earnings and recognized as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of expected regulatory recovery and net of taxes. The decommissioning liability to be recorded will represent the fair value of the obligation for the future decommissioning of the plants and, as a result, accretion expense will be accrued on this liability until the obligation is satisfied. As noted above, we currently record the obligation for decommissioning ratably over the lives of the plants. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 143 on our financial condition. Based on the current information and the credit adjusted risk free rate, we estimate the increase in 2003 non cash expense to impact earnings before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for the adoption of SFAS No. 143 by approximately $30 million, after income taxes. Additionally, the adoption of SFAS No. 143 is expected to result in non cash, one time cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle gain of approximately $1.9 billion, after income taxes. The $1.9 billion gain and the $30 million charge includes our share of the impact of the SFAS No. 143 adoption related to AmerGens nuclear plants. These impacts are based on our current interpretation of SFAS No. 143 and are subject to continued refinement based on the finalization of assumptions and interpretation at the time of adopting the standard, including the determination of the credit adjusted risk free rate. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation will continue to be adjusted on an ongoing basis as these model input factors change. In accordance with SFAS No. 143, we used a probabilistic cash flow model with multiple scenarios in order to determine the fair value of the decommissioning obligation. SFAS No. 143 also stipulates that fair value represent the amount a third party would receive for assuming all of an entitys obligation. Key assumptions used in our determination of fair value as defined in SFAS No. 143 include: decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party these decommissioning studies represent a marketplace assessment of costs and the timing of retirement activities validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates 59 annual cost escalation studies to determine escalation factors based on inflation indices used in decommissioning cost studies for the following major categories: labor, equipment and materials, energy, other (taxes, insurance, fees, etc.), and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. use of probabilistic cash flow models to measure the fair value including: the probability of various cost levels, and the probability of various timing scenarios incorporating the factors of current license lives and life extension and the timing of DOE acceptance for disposal of our spent nuclear fuel. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA), the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is responsible for the selection and development of repositories for, and the disposal of, spent nuclear fuel and high level radioactive waste (SNF). As required by the NWPA, ComEd and PECO, each signed a contract with the DOE (Standard Contract) to provide for disposal of SNF from their respective nuclear generating stations. The NWPA and the Standard Contract required the DOE to begin taking possession of SNF generated by nuclear generating units by no later than January 31, 1998. The DOE, however, failed to meet that deadline and its performance will be significantly delayed. The DOE currently estimates it will open a SNF facility in 2010. This extended delay requires us to retain possession of the SNF, thus increasing decommissioning costs including the operation and maintenance of facilities to store SNF until the DOE removes it from our sites. The NRC regulatory guidance suggests that decommissioning cost studies be updated every five years. Most of our studies were prepared in 1995 and 1996 and are in the process of being updated. Although no significant changes in decommissioning technologies have occurred since the studies were performed, and annual cost escalation studies are performed to determine the escalation factor applied to the base year cost study, changes in these cost studies could have a material impact on the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation. The final determination of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle is also in part a function of the credit adjusted risk free rate at the time of the adoption of the standard. Additionally, although over the life of the plant, the charges to earnings for the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability will be equal to the amounts that would have been recognized as decommissioning expense under the current accounting, the timing of those charges will change and in the near term period subsequent to adoption, the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability are expected to result in an increase in expense. Asset Impairments Long Lived Assets and Investments. (ComEd, PECO and Generation). SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" (SFAS No. 144), establishes accounting and reporting standards for both the impairment and disposal of long lived assets. SFAS No. 144 continues the FASB requirements that: an impairment loss be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows, and the impairment loss be measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. 60 Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, "The Equity Method of Accounting for Investment in Common Stock," requires that an impairment loss be recognized for an investment if the investment declines in fair value below its amortized cost basis, and this decline is judged to be other than temporary. We continually monitor our investments and businesses and the markets in which these businesses operate in order to determine events that may trigger an impairment. We test our businesses and investments for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Such triggering events may include a current expectation that there is a likelihood of 50% or greater that a long lived asset will be sold, competitors technological advancement, accelerated distributions of public holdings at a loss, lack of achievability of financial results versus plan, limited access to capital, or the loss of a major customer, among others. The analysis of impairment for long lived and intangible assets is subject to an undiscounted cash flow analysis that requires significant assumptions. In 2002, ComEd, PECO and Generation did not identify factors through this review process that indicated potential impairment of property, plant and equipment or other long lived assets. Goodwill (ComEd). Under SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS No. 142), goodwill is also subject to an assessment for impairment using a two step fair value based test, the first step of which must be performed at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. If an impairment is determined at ComEd, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed at ComEd. We performed the first step of the SFAS No. 142 impairment analysis, comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill, as of January 1, 2002, upon adoption of SFAS No. 142. That first step indicated no impairment of ComEds goodwill. In performing the Step I tests as prescribed in SFAS No. 142, ComEd determined that discounted cash flow models would provide the most appropriate measure to determine Step I fair value. Consistent with the guidance in SFAS No. 142, ComEd prepared multiple scenario discounted cash flow models in order to determine the value for Step I of SFAS No. 142. These models use multiple assumptions including revenue growth rates, general expense escalation rates, allowed return on equity, a risk adjusted discount rate and long term earnings multiples of comparable companies. In addition to the above noted assumptions, ComEds model included varying assumptions regarding: The timing of future rate case filings to establish new rates for bundled service after the then scheduled 2004 expiration of the rate freeze period, which has subsequently been extended to 2006 by Illinois law. Rate changes were assumed to occur at various points in 2005 through 2007 in the different scenarios. The cash flow impact of the expiration of the rate freeze and the resolution of uncertainties regarding future commodity risk at the expiration of the current PPA with Generation, the resolution of ComEds POLR obligation and various other risks and uncertainties. The results of the Step I analysis for ComEd showed a weighted average probabilistic valuation of the multiple scenario discounted cash flows in excess of ComEds book carrying amount, including goodwill, at December 31, 2001. Since the Step I calculated fair value was in excess of book value, we could conclude that ComEds goodwill of $4.9 billion was not impaired. As required by SFAS No. 142, ComEd performed the annual update of ComEds goodwill impairment analyses using a November 1, 2002 measurement date. This valuation determined the Step I calculated fair value of ComEd to be in excess of its book value at November 1, 2002. Since the Step I calculated fair value was in excess of book value, we concluded that goodwill was not impaired. Again, the probabilistic discounted cash flows model used in these analyses included the significant 61 assumptions noted above. Rate changes were assumed to occur at various points in 2007 through 2009 in the different scenarios for ComEd based on the June 2002 extension of the rate freeze. Modifications to any of the assumptions discussed above, particularly changes in discount rates, long term earnings multiples of comparable companies used to determine terminal values, and the expected results of rate proceedings, could result in a future impairment of goodwill. Actual results as well as market conditions in upcoming periods will impact the probabilities of scenarios used in the models. If the estimates of future cash flows in the ComEd model had been 10% lower, those discounted cash flows would still have been greater than the carrying values of ComEd. As we were not required to perform a Step II analysis at the November 1, 2002 measurement date for ComEd, a dollar amount for any potential impairment has not been determined. Because goodwill represents approximately 85% of ComEds common equity, a potential future impairment of goodwill could significantly impact ComEds ability to pay dividends to Exelon under PUHCA. The Illinois legislation provides that reductions to ComEds common equity resulting from goodwill impairments will not impact ComEds earnings cap calculation through 2006. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to essentially all ComEd, PECO, and Generation employees. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation, and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon utilizes assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increase and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions" (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 106, "Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions" the impact of changes in these factors on pension and other postretirement welfare benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected remaining service life of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. In selecting the expected rate of return on plan assets, Exelon considered historical and expected returns for the types of investments the plans hold. Exelons pension trust assets have lost $581 million, and $265 million, and gained $173 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.5% at January 1, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Exelon generally maintains 60% of its plan assets in equity securities and 40% of its plan assets in fixed income securities. Each quarter Exelon reviews the actual asset allocations and follows a rebalancing procedure in order to remain within an allowable range of these targeted percentages. Based on Exelons asset allocation and long term historical returns for both equity and fixed income securities, Exelon set its EROA at 9.0% as of January 1, 2003 in order to calculate 2003 pension cost. Exelons other postretirement benefit assets have lost $125 million, $14 million and $7 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The EROA assumption used in calculating the other postretirement benefit obligation was 8.8% at January 1, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Exelon will use an EROA assumption of 8.4% as of January 1, 2003 in order to calculate the 2003 other postretirement benefit costs. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. Exelon uses the Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index as a basis in selecting the discount rate. Exelon set the assumed discount rate at 7.35% and 6.75% at December 31, 2001 and 2002, respectively, in its estimate of pension expense and other postretirement benefit costs. 62 The following table illustrates the effect of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above: Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2002 Impact on Pension Liability at December 31, 2002 Impact on 2003 Pension Cost Pension Benefits Decrease Discount Rate by 0.5% $ 336 $ 336 $ 8 Decrease Rate of Return on Plan Assets by 0.5% 32 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2002 Impact on Postretirement Benefit Liability at December 31, 2002 Impact on 2003 Postretirement Benefit Cost Postretirement Benefits Decrease Discount Rate by 0.5% $ 152 $ $ 18 Decrease Rate of Return on Plan Assets by 0.5% 6 The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during Exelons annual review process. The impact of assumption changes are reflected in the recorded pension amounts consistent with assumption changes as they occur. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension amounts and funding requirements could also change. Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plans have unrecognized losses of $2.1 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2002. This unrecognized loss primarily represents the difference between the expected return on plan assets and the actual return on plan assets that has not yet been recognized in pension or other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon generally amortizes these unrecognized (gains)/losses over five years; however, the annual amortization amounts vary based on actuarial determinations. Recognition of an unrecognized loss will result in increased net periodic pension cost going forward. Primarily as a result of sharp declines in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000, Exelon recognized an additional minimum liability of $1.0 billion, net of income taxes, and an intangible asset of $211 million as prescribed by SFAS No. 87 in the fourth quarter of 2002. The liability was recorded as a reduction to shareholders equity, and the equity will be restored to the balance sheet in future periods when the fair value of plan assets exceeds the accumulated benefit obligation. The recording of this additional minimum liability did not affect net income or cash flow in 2002 or compliance with debt covenants; however, pension cost and cash funding requirements could increase in future years without a substantial recovery in the equity markets. Exelons defined benefit pension plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 without any additional funding; however, Exelon made a discretionary tax deductible plan contribution of $150 million in the fourth quarter of 2002, of which $82 million and $60 million were funded by ComEd and Generation, respectively. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary tax deductible plan contribution in 2003 of $300 million to $350 million. Approximately $15 million, $22 million and $37 million were included in operating and maintenance expense in 2002 for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively, for the cost of our pension and postretirement benefit plans, exclusive of the 2002 charges for employee severance programs. Although the 2003 increase in pension and postretirement benefit cost will depend on market conditions, Exelons estimate is that expense will increase by approximately $48 million, 63 $21 million and $52 million for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively, in 2003 from 2002 expense levels as the result of the effects of the decline in market value of plan assets in 2002, the decline in discount rate and increases in health care costs. In 2001, Exelon adopted a cash balance pension plan. All management and electing union employees who were hired by Exelon after 2001 became participants in the plan. Approximately 4,700 management employees who were active participants in Exelons previous qualified defined benefit plans at December 31, 2000 and remained employed by Exelon on January 1, 2002 elected to transfer to the cash balance plan. Participants in the cash balance plan, unlike participants in the other defined benefit plans, may request a lump sum cash payment upon employee termination. This may result in increased cash requirements from pension plan assets, which may increase future funding to the pension plan. Stock Based Compensation Plans (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon maintains a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for certain full time salaried employees and previously maintained a broad based incentive program for certain other employees. The types of long term incentive awards that have been granted under the LTIP are non qualified options to purchase shares of our common stock and common stock awards. The exercise price of the stock options is equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of option grant. Options granted under the LTIP and the broad based incentive program become exercisable upon attainment of a target share value and or time. All options expire 10 years from the date of grant. At December 31, 2002, there were 13,000,000 options authorized for issuance under Exelons LTIP and 2,000,000 options authorized under Exelons broad based incentive program. ComEd, PECO and Generation currently follow the disclosure only provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" (SFAS No. 123). If ComEd, PECO and Generation had elected to account for stock based compensation based on SFAS No. 123, ComEd, PECO and Generation would have recognized compensation expense as follows: 2002 2001 2000 ComEd $ 13 $ 10 $ 13 (a) PECO 13 15 17 Generation 15 9 10 (a)Includes Unicom expense of $3 million for the period of 2000 prior to the Merger. Exelon uses an independent actuarial firm to calculate the fair value of the options and to assist in the development of amounts required to be disclosed under SFAS No. 123. The key assumptions used in this determination of fair value are the expected volatility of the stock price, based on historical information; the expected life of the options, based on the vesting period and expiration date of the options; the estimated dividend yield, based on historical information adjusted for material known future changes; and the risk free interest rate, based on the yield of a United States Treasury Strip available on the date of the grant and expiring at the approximate end of the options term. Changes in these assumptions could have resulted in material changes in the amounts disclosed under SFAS No. 123 in ComEd, PECO and Generations Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Combinations (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In the three year period ended December 31, 2002, Exelon has completed several business combinations and asset acquisitions. Exelon adopted SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" (SFAS No. 141), as of January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 141 is effective for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations be accounted for under the 64 purchase method of accounting and establishes criteria for the separate recognition of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. Under the purchase method of accounting, purchased assets and liabilities must be recorded at their fair value. If a quoted fair value is not readily available for the majority of assets and liabilities exchanged, the determination of this fair value requires the use of significant judgment, both by management and outside experts engaged to assist in this determination process. Changes in the assumptions made in determining the fair values could have resulted in material changes in the amounts disclosed in Note 3 of the Notes to ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5 of the Notes to PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes 2 and 4 of the Notes to Generations Consolidated Financial Statements. There would also be an impact on Exelons financial results. If the fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired in a business combination would have been higher, and an amount allocated to goodwill in the business combination lower, depreciation expense would have been higher. Conversely, if the fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired in a business combination would have been lower, and an amount allocated to goodwill in the business combination higher, depreciation expense would have been lower. For example, if the $2 billion fair value of the generating plants acquired in the Merger was estimated to be 1% higher, then annual depreciation expense would be less than $1 million higher and goodwill amortization, which ceased in 2002, would have been less than $1 million lower annually. Unbilled Energy Revenues (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to ComEd and PECOs sale of energy are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month since the date of the last meter reading are estimated and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand measured by generation volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers (line loss) and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2002 include unbilled energy revenues of $250 million on a base of annual revenue of $6.1 billion for ComEd and $129 million on a base of annual revenue of $4.3 billion for PECO. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue. Revenues related to Generations sale of energy are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand, fixed quantity sales, generation volume and applicable market or fixed rates. Customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2002 include unbilled energy revenues of $370 million on a base of annual revenue of $6.9 billion. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Environmental Costs (ComEd, PECO and Generation) As of December 31, 2002, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $101 million, $40 million and $15 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which we will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where timing, scope and expenditures of remediation efforts can be reasonably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts, recorded at ComEd, represent $97 million of the total ComEd accrued liabilities above. Where the timing, scope 65 and expenditures of remediation efforts cannot be reasonably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $4 million, $40 million and $15 million of the total accrued liabilities above for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology and changes in regulations or the requirements of Federal, state and local governmental authorities. During 2002, ComEd increased its reserve for environmental costs by $17 million as the result of a delay in implementing the ongoing remediation for a manufactured gas plant site in Oak Park, Illinois. New Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 143 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 provides accounting requirements for retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. We will adopt SFAS No. 143 as of January 1, 2003. Retirement obligations associated with long lived assets included within the scope of SFAS No. 143 are those for which there is a legal obligation to settle under existing or enacted law, statute, written or oral contract or by legal construction under the doctrine of promissory estoppel. Adoption of SFAS No. 143 will change the accounting for the decommissioning of our nuclear generating plants as well as certain other long lived assets. ComEd, PECO and Generation are in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 143 on their financial condition. While ComEd and PECO do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143 to have a material impact on their financial condition, Generation does expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143 to have a material impact on its financial condition related to its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants. As it relates to nuclear decommissioning, the effect of a cumulative adjustment will be to decrease the decommissioning liability to reflect the fair value of the decommissioning obligation at the balance sheet date. Additionally, SFAS No. 143 will require the recognition of an asset related to the decommissioning obligation, which will be amortized over the remaining lives of the plants. The net difference, between the asset recognized and the change in the liability to reflect fair value recorded upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, will be recorded in earnings and recognized as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of expected regulatory recovery and income taxes. The decommissioning liability will then represent an obligation for the future decommissioning of the plants and, as a result, accretion expense will be accrued on this liability until the obligation is satisfied. Currently, Generation records the obligation for decommissioning ratably over the lives of the plants. Based on the current information and the credit adjusted risk free rate, Generation estimates the increase in 2003 non cash expense to impact Generation earnings before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for the adoption of SFAS No. 143 by approximately $30 million, after income taxes. Additionally, the adoption of SFAS No. 143 is expected to result in a non cash, one time cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle gain at Generation of approximately $1.9 billion, after income taxes. The $1.9 billion gain and the $30 million charge includes Generations share of the impact of the SFAS No. 143 adoption related to AmerGens nuclear plants. These impacts are based on Generations current interpretation of SFAS No. 143 and are subject to continued refinement based on the finalization of assumptions and interpretation at the time of adopting the standard, including the determination of the credit adjusted risk free rate. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation will continue to be adjusted on an ongoing basis as these model input factors change. The final determination of the 2003 earnings impact and the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 143 is in part a function of the credit adjusted risk free rate at the time of the adoption of SFAS No. 143. Additionally, although over the life of the plant the charges to earnings for the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability will be equal to the amounts that would have been recognized as decommissioning expense under current accounting, the timing of those charges will change and in 66 the near term period subsequent to adoption, the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability is expected to result in an increase in expense. SFAS No. 146 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" (SFAS No. 146). SFAS No. 146 requires that the liability for costs associated with exit or disposal activities be recognized when incurred, rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. SFAS No. 146 is to be applied prospectively to exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. FIN No. 45 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In November 2002, the FASB released FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" (FIN No. 45), providing for expanded disclosures and recognition of a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken by the guarantor. Under FIN No. 45, guarantors are required to disclose the nature of the guarantee, the maximum amount of potential future payments, the carrying amount of the liability and the nature and amount of recourse provisions or available collateral that would be recoverable by the guarantor. As of December 31, 2002, we have adopted disclosure requirements under FIN No. 45, which were effective for financial statements for periods ended after December 15, 2002. The recognition and measurement provisions of FIN No. 45 are effective, on a prospective basis, for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. FIN No. 46 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" (FIN No. 46). FIN No. 46 addresses consolidating certain variable interest entities and applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. The impact, if any, of adopting FIN 46 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, has not been fully determined. 67  ComEd General On October 20, 2000, ComEd became a 99.9% owned subsidiary of Exelon as a result of the transactions relating to the Merger. As a result of the Merger, ComEds consolidated financial information for the period after the Merger has a different cost basis than that of previous periods. Material variances caused by the different cost basis have been disclosed where applicable. Through December 31, 2000, ComEd operated as a vertically integrated electric utility. During January 2001, Exelon undertook a restructuring to separate its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery business. As part of the restructuring, the non regulated operations and related assets and liabilities of ComEd were transferred to separate subsidiaries of Exelon. As a result, beginning January 2001, the operations of ComEd principally consist of the purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in northern Illinois. The restructuring has had a significant impact on all components of ComEds results of operations. The estimated impact of the restructuring set forth herein reflects the effects of removing the operations related to ComEds nuclear generating stations and obtaining energy and capacity from Generation under the terms of the PPA for the year ended December 31, 2000. 68 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends ComEd 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power 2,585 2,670 (85 ) (3.2 )% Operating and Maintenance 964 981 (17 ) (1.7 )% Depreciation and Amortization 522 665 (143 ) (21.5 )% Taxes Other Than Income 287 296 (9 ) (3.0 )% Total Operating Expense 4,358 4,612 (254 ) (5.5 )% OPERATING INCOME 1,766 1,594 172 10.8% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (484 ) (565 ) 81 (14.3 )% Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities (30 ) (30 ) Other, Net 44 114 (70 ) (61.4 )% Total Other Income and Deductions (470 ) (481 ) 11 (2.3 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 1,296 1,113 183 16.4% INCOME TAXES 506 506 NET INCOME $ 790 $ 607 $ 183 30.1% Net Income Net income increased $183 million, or 30% in 2002. Net income was primarily impacted by the discontinuation of goodwill amortization, lower depreciation rates effective August 1, 2002, lower interest expense and a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by the effects of a 5% residential rate reduction effective October 1, 2001, customers electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO and lower intercompany interest income. 69 Operating Revenues ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs)(1) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Deliveries(2) Residential 27,474 25,282 2,192 8.7 % Small Commercial & Industrial 22,365 23,435 (1,070 ) (4.6 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 7,885 10,305 (2,420 ) (23.5 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 6,480 7,879 (1,399 ) (17.8 )% 64,204 66,901 (2,697 ) (4.0 )% Unbundled Deliveries(3) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 5,219 2,865 2,354 82.2 % Large Commercial & Industrial 7,095 5,458 1,637 30.0 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 912 365 547 149.9 % 13,226 8,688 4,538 52.2 % PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 3,152 3,279 (127 ) (3.9 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 5,131 5,750 (619 ) (10.8 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 1,347 987 360 36.5 % 9,630 10,016 (386 ) (3.9 )% Total Unbundled Deliveries 22,856 18,704 4,152 22.2 % Total Retail Deliveries 87,060 85,605 1,455 1.7 % (1)One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWhs. (2)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (3)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 70 Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Revenues(1) Residential $ 2,381 $ 2,308 $ 73 3.2 % Small Commercial & Industrial 1,736 1,821 (85 ) (4.7 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 410 523 (113 ) (21.6 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 377 430 (53 ) (12.3 )% 4,904 5,082 (178 ) (3.5 )% Unbundled Revenues(2) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 138 48 90 187.5 % Large Commercial & Industrial 154 74 80 108.1 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 28 5 23 n.m. 320 127 193 152.0 % PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 204 220 (16 ) (7.3 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 278 343 (65 ) (19.0 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 71 59 12 20.3 % 553 622 (69 ) (11.1 )% Total Unbundled Revenues 873 749 124 16.6 % Total Electric Retail Revenues 5,777 5,831 (54 ) (0.9 )% Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 347 375 (28 ) (7.5 )% Total Electric Revenue $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% (1)Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2)Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission, and distribution charges and a CTC charge. (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer Choice $ (131 ) Rate Changes (99 ) Weather 88 Volume 91 Other Effects (3 ) Retail Revenue $ (54 ) Customer Choice. The decrease in revenues reflects customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 22,700 retail customers had elected to purchase energy from an ARES or the ComEd PPO, an increase from 18,700 customers at December 31, 2001. The megawatthours (MWhs or the equivalent of one thousand KWhs) delivered to such customers increased from approximately 18.7 million in 2001 to 22.9 million in 2002, a 22% increase from the previous year. 71 Rate Changes. The decrease attributable to rate changes reflects a 5% residential rate reduction, effective October 1, 2001, required by the Illinois restructuring legislation. Weather. The demand for electricity service is impacted by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months is referred to as "favorable weather conditions," because these weather conditions result in increased demand for electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. The weather impact for 2002 was favorable compared to 2001 as a result of warmer summer weather and slightly cooler winter weather in 2002 compared to 2001. Cooling degree days increased 29% and heating degree days increased 3% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of weather, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily residential. The reduction in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due primarily to a $38 million decrease in off system sales due to the expiration of wholesale contracts that were offered by ComEd from June 2000 to May 2001 to support the open access program in Illinois, and a $15 million reversal of reserve for revenue refunds in 2001 related to certain of ComEds municipal customers as a result of a favorable FERC ruling, partially offset by a reimbursement from Generation of $12 million for third party energy reconciliations and $13 million of other miscellaneous revenue. Purchased Power Purchased power expense decreased $85 million, or 3% in 2002. The decrease in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a $145 million decrease as a result of customers choosing to purchase energy from an ARES and a $34 million decrease due to the expiration of the wholesale contracts offered by ComEd to support the open access program in Illinois partially offset by a $41 million increase associated with increased retail demand due to favorable weather conditions, a $16 million increase due to the effects of increased weather normalized volumes for residential and small commercial and industrial customers, an $18 million increase due to an increase in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost per MWh of electricity and $20 million in additional expense as a result of third party energy reconciliations. Operating and Maintenance The $17 million decrease in operating and maintenance (O&M) expense is comprised of $32 million of lower payroll costs due to employee reductions, $16 million in cost reductions from Exelons Cost Management Initiative and $24 million miscellaneous other net positive impacts, partially offset by $25 million in additional employee benefit costs, a $16 million net increase in environmental and remediation expense and a $14 million increase in injuries and damages expense. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $143 million, or 22%, in 2002 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Depreciation Expense $ 334 $ 353 $ (19 ) (5.4 )% Recoverable Transition Costs Amortization 102 108 (6 ) (5.6 )% Other Amortization Expense 86 204 (118 ) (57.8 )% Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 522 $ 665 $ (143 ) (21.5 )% 72 The decrease in depreciation expense is due to a $48 million decrease related to lower depreciation rates partially offset by the effect of higher in service property, plant and equipment balances. Recoverable transition costs amortization expense is determined using the expected period of the rate freeze and the expected returns in the periods under the rate freeze. The reduction in amortization expense in 2002 is due to the extension of the rate freeze in the second quarter of 2002. ComEd expects to fully recover these assets by the end of 2006. The decrease in Other Amortization Expense is primarily attributable to the discontinuation of amortization of goodwill as required by SFAS No. 142. During 2001, $126 million of goodwill was amortized. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased by $9 million, or 3% in 2002. The primary positive impact was the result of real estate tax refunds in the amount of $5 million. Interest Charges Interest charges decreased $81 million, or 14% in 2002. The decrease in interest charges was primarily attributable to the impact of lower interest rates for 2002 as compared to 2001, the early retirement of $196 million of First Mortgage Bonds in November of 2001, the retirement of $340 million in transitional trust notes during 2002, and $10 million of intercompany interest expense in 2001 relating to a payable in Generation, which was repaid during 2001. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions, excluding interest charges, decreased $70 million, or 61%, in 2002. The decrease was primarily attributable to $8 million in intercompany interest income relating to the $400 million receivable from PECO which was repaid during the second quarter of 2001, a $31 million reduction in intercompany interest income from Unicom Investment Inc., reflecting lower interest rates, $9 million in intercompany interest income from Generation in 2001 on the processing of certain invoice payments on behalf of Generation, a $12 million reserve for a potential plant disallowance resulting from an audit performed in conjunction with ComEds delivery services rate case, and an $10 million decrease in various other income and deductions items. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.0% in 2002, compared to 45.5% in 2001. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the discontinuation of goodwill amortization as of January 1, 2002, which was not deductible for income tax purposes, and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. 73 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Summary Financial Information ComEd Components of Variance 2001 2000 Restructuring Impact Normal Operations Total (in millions) OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,206 $ 7,012 $ (707 ) $ (99 ) $ (806 ) Purchased Power and Fuel 2,670 1,977 677 16 693 Operating and Maintenance 981 2,076 (1,072 ) (23 ) (1,095 ) Merger Related Costs 67 (67 ) (67 ) Depreciation and Amortization 665 998 (282 ) (51 ) (333 ) Taxes Other Than Income 296 508 (131 ) (81 ) (212 ) Total Operating Expenses 4,612 5,626 (808 ) (206 ) (1,014 ) OPERATING INCOME 1,594 1,386 101 107 208 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (565 ) (602 ) 43 (6 ) 37 Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities (30 ) (30 ) Other, Net 114 308 (194 ) (194 ) Total Other Income and Deductions (481 ) (324 ) 43 (200 ) (157 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 1,113 1,062 144 (93 ) 51 INCOME TAXES 506 330 72 104 176 NET INCOME 607 732 72 (197 ) (125 ) Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends (3 ) 3 3 NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 607 $ 729 $ 72 $ (194 ) $ (122 ) Net Income Net income from normal operations decreased $197 million, or 25% in 2001. Net income was impacted by $107 million in increased operating income offset by a higher effective tax rate and a $194 million decrease in other income and deductions primarily attributable to a gain on the forward share purchase arrangement recognized during 2000 and a reduction in intercompany interest income in 2001 as compared to 2000. 74 Operating Revenues Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and distribution of the energy. Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from the PPO or an ARES. Revenue from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges and a CTC charge. Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2001 2000 Variance Bundled Deliveries(1) Residential 25,282 23,997 1,285 Small Commercial & Industrial 23,435 24,833 (1,398 ) Large Commercial & Industrial 10,305 15,348 (5,043 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 7,879 7,665 214 66,901 71,843 (4,942 ) Unbundled Deliveries(2) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 2,865 2,772 93 Large Commercial & Industrial 5,458 5,807 (349 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 365 297 68 8,688 8,876 (188 ) PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 3,279 1,433 1,846 Large Commercial & Industrial 5,750 2,812 2,938 Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 987 1,088 (101 ) 10,016 5,333 4,683 Total Unbundled Deliveries 18,704 14,209 4,495 Total Retail Deliveries 85,605 86,052 (447 ) (1)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 75 Electric Revenue 2001 2000 Variance (in millions) Bundled Revenue(1) Residential $ 2,308 $ 2,235 $ 73 Small Commercial & Industrial 1,821 1,949 (128 ) Large Commercial & Industrial 523 811 (288 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 430 424 6 5,082 5,419 (337 ) Unbundled Revenue(2) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 48 62 (14 ) Large Commercial & Industrial 74 115 (41 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 5 7 (2 ) 127 184 (57 ) PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 220 92 128 Large Commercial & Industrial 343 158 185 Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 59 56 3 622 306 316 Total Unbundled Revenues 749 490 259 Total Electric Retail Revenues 5,831 5,909 (78 ) Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 375 396 (4) (21 ) Total Electric Revenues $ 6,206 $ 6,305 $ (99 ) (1)Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2)Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission, and distribution charges and a CTC charge. (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. (4)Includes the operations of ComEd as if the 2001 corporate restructuring had occurred on January 1, 2000. The changes in electric retail revenues for 2001, as compared to 2000, were attributable to the following: Variance (in millions) Customer Choice $ (145 ) Weather 103 Revenue Taxes (88 ) Other Effects 76 Rate Changes (24 ) Electric Retail Revenue $ (78 ) Customer Choice. ComEd non residential customers have the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers. This choice generally does not impact MWh deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd. The decrease in revenues reflects customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. As of December 31, 2001, 76 approximately 18,700 retail customers, representing 22% of total annual retail deliveries, had elected to purchase energy from the PPO or an ARES, compared to approximately 9,500 customers, representing 17% of total annual retail deliveries, as of December 31, 2000. Weather. Although weather was moderate in 2001, the weather impact was favorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer summer weather offset in part by warmer winter weather in 2001. Cooling degree days increased 11% in 2001 compared to 2000 while heating degree days decreased 5% in 2001 compared to 2000. Revenue taxes. The change in revenue taxes represents a change in presentation of certain revenue taxes from operating revenue and tax expense to collections recorded as liabilities resulting from Illinois legislation. This change in presentation does not affect results of operations. Other Effects. A strong housing construction market in Chicago has contributed to residential and small commercial and industrial customer volume growth, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a slower economy on large commercial and industrial customers. Rate Changes. The decrease in revenues attributable to rate changes reflects a 5% residential rate reduction, effective October 1, 2001, required by the Illinois restructuring legislation. The reduction in wholesale and miscellaneous revenues in 2001 as compared to 2000, as if the restructuring occurred on January 1, 2000, reflects a $101 million reduction in off system sales due to the expiration of wholesale contracts that were offered by ComEd from June 2000 to May 2001 to support the open access program in Illinois, partially offset by a $58 million increase in transmission service revenue and the reversal of a $15 million reserve for revenue refunds to ComEds municipal customers as a result of a favorable FERC ruling. Purchased Power and Fuel Purchased power and fuel expense increased $16 million, or 1%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense was primarily attributable to increases in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost per MWh, partially offset by a decrease in MWhs purchased. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense decreased $23 million, or 2%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The decrease in O&M expense was primarily attributable to a decrease in customer credit and billing costs due to process improvements and a decrease in storm restoration and service reliability costs, partially offset by higher administrative and general costs. Merger Related Costs Merger related costs charged to expense in 2000 were $67 million consisting of $26 million of direct incremental costs and $41 million for employee costs. Direct incremental costs represent expenses directly associated with completing the Merger, including professional fees, regulatory approval, and other merger integration costs. Employee costs represent estimated severance payments provided for under Exelons Merger Separation Plan for eligible employees whose positions were eliminated before October 20, 2000 due to planned integration activities of the merged companies. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $51 million, or 7%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. Regulatory asset and decommissioning amortization decreased $180 million primarily due to the gain on the settlement of the common stock forward purchase arrangement in the 77 first quarter of 2000, partially offset by a $103 million increase in goodwill amortization representing the impact of a full year of amortization expense in 2001 and a $26 million increase in depreciation expense from increased plant in service due to continued transmission and distribution capital improvements. Consistent with the provisions of the Illinois legislation, regulatory assets may be recovered at amounts that provide ComEd an earned return on common equity within the Illinois legislation earnings threshold. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Annual goodwill amortization of $126 million in 2001 was discontinued in 2002 upon the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased $81 million, or 21%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The decrease in taxes other than income was primarily attributable to the effect of the change in certain revenue taxes from operating revenue and tax expense to collections recorded as liabilities resulting from Illinois legislation. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts. Interest charges increased $6 million, or 1%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The increase in interest expense was primarily attributable to increased interest accrued on estimated tax liabilities and interest due on amounts payable to affiliates. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions, excluding interest charges, decreased $194 million, compared to 2000. The decrease was primarily attributable to the $113 million gain on the forward share purchase arrangement recognized during 2000 and a $115 million reduction in intercompany interest income in 2001 from Unicom Investment, Inc., reflecting the impact of declining interest rates and an $850 million reduction in intercompany notes receivable in the fourth quarter of 2000, partially offset by the $38 million loss on the sale of Cotter Corporation, a ComEd subsidiary, recognized during 2000. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 45.5% in 2001, compared to 31.1% in 2000. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the effects of the gain on the forward share purchase arrangement recorded in 2000, which was not recognized for tax purposes, a full year of goodwill amortization in 2001, which is not deductible for tax purposes, the amortization of certain recoverable transition costs, which is not deductible for tax purposes and lower investment tax credit amortization resulting from the application of purchase accounting in connection with the Merger. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing including the issuance of commercial paper. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt and the payment of dividends. 78  Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations in 2002 were $2.0 billion as compared to $1.3 billion in 2001. The increase in cash flows in 2002 was primarily attributable to a $183 million increase in net income, a $175 million increase in other operating activities, and a $422 million increase in working capital partially offset by a decrease of $143 million in depreciation and amortization. ComEds future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve reductions in operating costs, the impact of the economy, weather, and customer choice on its revenues. Although the amounts may vary from period to period as a result of uncertainties inherent in the business, ComEd expects to continue to provide a reliable and steady source of internal cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. ComEd participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon made a $150 million discretionary plan contribution in 2002, $82 million of which was funded by ComEd. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary plan contribution of $300 million to $350 million in 2003. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $759 million in 2002 compared to $458 million in 2001. The increase in cash flows used in investing activities in 2002 was primarily attributable to the paydown of the $400 million outstanding receivable from PECO in the second quarter of 2001 partially offset by an $89 million decrease in capital expenditures. ComEds investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 were funded primarily through operating activities. ComEd estimates that it will spend approximately $720 million in total capital expenditures for 2003. Approximately two thirds of the budgeted 2003 expenditures are for continuing efforts to further improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems. The remaining one third is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. ComEd anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2002 were $1,231 million as compared to $1,006 million in 2001. Cash flows used in financing activities were primarily attributable to debt service and payments of dividends to Exelon. ComEds debt financing activities in 2002 reflected the issuance of $600 million of First Mortgage Bonds, the issuance of $100 million of Illinois Development Finance Authority floating rate Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds, the retirement of $340 million of transitional trust notes, the redemption of $600 million in First Mortgage Bonds with available cash, the payment at maturity of $200 million in First Mortgage Bonds, the payment at maturity of $200 million in variable rate senior notes, the payment at maturity of $100 million of fixed rate medium term notes and the redemption of $100 million of 7.25% Illinois Development Finance Authority Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds. As of December 31, 2002, ComEd had $123 million in short term borrowings of which $52 million has been classified as long term debt. In 2001, ComEds debt financing activities reflected the retirement of $340 million of transitional trust notes and the redemption of $196 million in First Mortgage Bonds. ComEd paid a $470 million dividend to Exelon during 2002 compared to a $483 million dividend in 2001. Credit Issues ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. ComEd, along with Exelon, PECO, and 79 Generation, participates in a $1.5 billion unsecured 364 day revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The credit facility that became effective on November 22, 2002, includes a term out option that allows any outstanding borrowings at the end of the revolving credit period to be repaid on November 21, 2004. Exelon may increase or decrease the sublimits of each of the participants upon written notification to the banks. As of December 31, 2002, ComEds sublimit was $200 million. The credit facility is used principally to support ComEds commercial paper program. At December 31, 2002, ComEds Balance Sheet reflects $123 million in commercial paper outstanding, of which $52 million was classified as long term debt. For 2002, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.69%. Certain of the credit agreements to which ComEd is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. ComEds threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, ComEd was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. At December 31, 2002, ComEds capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $615 million receivable from Exelon, consisted of 46% long term debt, 50% of common stock, 3% of preferred securities of subsidiaries, and 1% of notes payable. Long term debt included $2.0 billion of transitional trust notes constituting obligations of certain consolidated special purpose entities representing 16% of capitalization. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the Exelon corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether such funding results in mutual economic benefits to each of the participants, although Exelon is not permitted to be a net borrower from the money pool. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or specific borrowing rates if the funds are provided by external financing. There have been no material money pool transactions in 2002. ComEds access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. None of ComEds borrowings are subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows ComEds securities ratings at December 31, 2002: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings ComEd Senior secured debt A3 A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Under PUHCA, ComEd can only pay dividends from retained or current earnings; however, the SEC has authorized ComEd to pay up to $500 million in dividends out of additional paid in capital, provided ComEd may not pay dividends out of paid in capital after December 31, 2002 if its common equity is less than 30% of its total capitalization (including transitional trust notes). ComEd is 80 precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. At December 31, 2002, ComEd had retained earnings of $577 million. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments ComEds contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 6,024 (a) $ 750 (a) $ 1,383 $ 1,295 $ 2,596 Notes Payable 71 71 Operating Leases 135 22 38 32 43 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities 350 350 Total Contractual Obligations $ 6,580 $ 843 $ 1,421 $ 1,327 $ 2,989 (a)Includes $52 million of commercial paper classified as long term debt under the provisions of SFAS No. 6, "Classification of Short term Obligations to be Refinanced." On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt see Note 10 notes payable see Note 9 operating leases see Note 16 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities see Note 13 Midwest Agreement see Note 19 81 ComEds commercial commitments as of December 31, 2002 representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, including financing arrangements to secure obligations of ComEd, are as follows: Expiration within After 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Credit Facility(a) $ 200 $ 200 $ $ $ Letters of Credit (non debt)(b) 24 24 Letter of Credit (Long term Debt)(c) 92 92 Insured Long Term Debt(d) 100 100 Surety Bonds(e) 18 18 Total Commercial Commitments $ 434 $ 334 $ $ $ 100 (a)Credit Facility ComEd, along with Exelon, PECO and Generation, maintain a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility to support commercial paper issuances. ComEd has a $200 million sublimit under the credit facility. At December 31, 2002, there were no borrowings against the credit facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, ComEd had $123 million in outstanding commercial paper. (b)Letters of Credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (c)Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt) Direct pay letters of credit issued in connection with variable rate debt in order to provide liquidity in the event that it is not possible to remarket all of the debt as required following specific events, including changes in the basis of determining the interest rate on the debt. (d)Insured Long Term Debt Borrowings that have been credit enhanced through the purchase of insurance coverage equal to the amount of principal outstanding plus interest. (e)Surety Bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial surety bonds, excluding bid bonds. As part of a settlement agreement between ComEd and Chicago relating to ComEds Chicago franchise agreement, ComEd and Chicago agreed to a revised combination of ongoing work under the franchise agreement and new initiatives that total approximately $1 billion in defined transmission and distribution expenditures by ComEd to improve electric service in Chicago, all of which has been expended through December 31, 2002. Critical Accounting Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds Critical Accounting Estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business ComEd faces a number of challenges in achieving its vision and keeping its commitments to its customers and investors. ComEd may be significantly impacted by the end of its regulatory transition period in 2006. A significant challenge is that by existing law, after 2006, ComEd will not collect CTCs from customers who elect to receive generation services from alternative energy suppliers including the ComEd PPO. Additionally, the current bundled rate structure may be reset in a regulatory proceeding. It is difficult to predict the outcome of a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates for 2007 and thereafter; nor is it possible to predict what changes may occur to the restructuring law in Illinois; 82 however, ComEd is undertaking various efforts to mitigate the 2007 challenge. This and other challenges that will affect how ComEd manages its business are described below. ComEd must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing its business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. ComEds business is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. ComEd is regulated by the ICC which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between ComEd and its affiliates. ComEd is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates transmission rates and certain other aspects of its business. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which ComEd does business, its ability to undertake specified actions and the costs of its operations. ComEd is involved in a number of regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of ComEds costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, ComEd looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grant some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. Delivery Services Rate Case. ComEd is authorized to charge customers who purchase electricity from an alternative supplier for the use of its distribution system to deliver that electricity. These delivery service rates are set through proceedings before the ICC based upon, among other things, the operating costs associated with ComEds distribution system and the capital investment that ComEd has made in its distribution system. In April 2002, the ICC issued an interim order that set delivery rates for ComEds residential customers. The interim order was subject to an audit of test year (2000) expenditures, including capital expenditures. In October 2002, the ICC received the report on the audit of the test year expenditures by a consulting firm engaged by the ICC to perform the audit. The consulting firm recommended certain additional disallowances to test year expenditures and rate base levels. ComEd does not expect any change in delivery service rates to have a significant impact on results of operations in 2003. However, the estimated potential investment write off, before income taxes, could be up to approximately $100 million if the ICC ultimately determines that all or some portion of ComEds distribution plant is not recoverable through rates. In 2002, ComEd recorded a charge to earnings, before income taxes, of $12 million representing the estimated minimum probable exposure. ComEd is in negotiations with several parties to resolve the delivery service case. 2003 Agreement. On March 3, 2003, ComEd entered into an agreement with various Illinois electric retail market suppliers, key customer groups and governmental parties regarding several matters affecting ComEds rates for electric service (Agreement). The Agreement contemplates a series of coordinated filings with the ICC, which must issue orders consistent with the Agreement in order for the provisions of the Agreement to become effective. The Agreement addresses, among other things: ComEds pending residential delivery services rate proceeding New residential delivery service rates would be set based upon substantially the same as the rates currently in effect under the interim order and would remain in effect through December 31, 2006, with a possible reopener in the event that a reexamination in 2005 shows that ComEd is either under recovering or over recovering by more than 15% based on those rates. In addition, a $109 million distribution system capital expenditure disallowance that was 83 proposed in the pending proceeding by a consulting firm engaged by the ICC to audit ComEds test year expenditures, would not be reflected in the revenue requirement. Under the Agreement, distribution system plant reflected in the rate filing would be considered prudent and used and useful for purposes of this and future rate proceedings. Illinois electricity market development There would be a modification of the methodology used to determine the market value energy credit. That credit is used to determine the price for specified market based rate offerings by ComEd, and the rate for the CTC that ComEd is allowed to collect from customers who select an alternative retail electricity supplier. The credit would be adjusted upward through agreed upon "adders," which would take effect in June 2003 and would have the effect of reducing the CTC rate charged customers. The estimated annual revenue impact of the reduction in CTC revenues under the Agreement is approximately $65 million to $70 million. In addition, customers would be offered an option to lock in CTC charges for longer periods. Currently, CTC charges are subject to change annually. Competitive service declarations that assist in mitigating ComEds POLR obligations The Agreement provides for the withdrawal of certain of the outstanding appeals of the competitive declaration for service to customers having load requirements of three or more megawatts. Also, it establishes a process for achieving in June 2004 a similar competitive declaration for service to customers having load requirements of one to three megawatts. ComEds ability to enter into a full requirements PPA with Generation The parties to the Agreement would not contest extending ComEds full requirements PPA, now in place through 2004, through 2006, replacing the partial requirements service for 2005 and 2006 in the existing agreement. The parties also would not contest ComEds continued recovery of up to $73 million in nuclear decommissioning charges during 2005 and 2006, depending on the amount of energy that ComEd would purchase from Generations nuclear plants formerly owned by ComEd. Funding of certain programs for customer and governmental groups The Agreement provides for a total of $51 million in funding to various consumer groups and governmental agencies for a variety of programs from 2003 through 2006. Those programs may include energy and environmental programs, efficiency products and services, residential consumer education, market development studies and installation of emergency generating equipment. ComEd believes the Agreement assists in protecting the integrity of the CTC that it is allowed to collect from customers who choose an alternative supplier; sets a reasonable delivery service rate; provides customers and ComEd with greater price certainty and stability; enhances its relationship with regulatory, governmental and key customer groups; avoids the costs, uncertainty and time associated with litigation; and presents a proactive approach to increasing competition in the supply of electricity in Illinois. In order for the Agreement to become effective, the ICC, which is not a party to the Agreement, must enter orders consistent with the Agreement by late March 2003 in various regulatory proceedings that are the subject of the Agreement. Although the parties to the Agreement have agreed as to the general content of those orders, there are other parties to the proceedings who are seeking changes or modifications to the proposed orders or otherwise seeking to delay or prevent the effectiveness of the Agreement. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Agreement will become effective. 84 If the Agreement becomes effective, ComEd would record a charge to earnings associated with the funding of specified programs and initiatives associated with the Agreement of $49 million on a present value basis before income taxes. This amount would be partially offset by the reversal of a $12 million (before income taxes) reserve established in the third quarter of 2002 for a potential capital disallowance in ComEds delivery services rate proceeding, and a credit of $10 million (before income taxes) related to the capitalization of employee incentive payments provided for in the delivery services order. The net one time charge for these items of $27 million (before income taxes) would be recognized upon receipt of necessary ICC approvals. ComEd must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Each year increases in both customers and the demand for energy requires expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues, and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of ComEds maintenance and capital expenditures. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. ComEd must manage its costs due to the rate and equity return limitations imposed on ComEds revenues. Rate freezes in effect at ComEd currently limit the ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. As a result, ComEds future results of operations will depend on the ability of ComEd to deliver electricity in a cost efficient manner, and to realize cost reductions to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. Rate limitations. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated rate freeze on bundled retail rates that will remain effective until January 1, 2007. Equity return limitation. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated cap on its return on common equity through the end of 2006. The cap is based on a two year average of the U.S. Treasury long term rates (25 years and above) plus 8.5%, and is compared to a two year average return on ComEds common equity. The legislation requires customer refunds equal to one half of any excess earnings above the cap. ComEd is allowed to include regulatory asset amortization in the calculation of earnings. ComEd has not triggered the earnings sharing provision and currently does not expect to trigger the earnings sharing provision in the years 2003 through 2006. However, due to the historically low interest rates used in calculating the earnings cap, ComEd may be required to amortize additional regulatory assets. ComEd has and will lose energy customers to other generation service providers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of ComEd will vary because of customer choice of generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Illinois, all of ComEds retail electric customers can choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative suppliers. If customers do not choose an alternative generation supplier or take service under ComEds PPO, ComEd is currently generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in its service territory at fixed rates, or in some instances, market derived rates. In addition, customers who choose an alternative generation supplier may later return to ComEd, provided, however, that under Illinois law ComEds obligation to provide generation 85 may be eliminated over time if the ICC finds that competitive supply options are available to certain classes of customers. ComEd remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation supplier. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation provider, ComEd revenues are likely to decline. At December 31, 2002, based on sales of energy approximately 27% of ComEds small commercial and industrial (C&I) load and 61% of its large C&I load were purchasing their generation service from an alternative generation supplier or had chosen ComEds PPO, a market based price for energy. There are currently no certified alternative suppliers for the residential market in ComEds service territory. The number of customers choosing alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that ComEd is authorized to charge by the ICC. As a result of the right of customer choice of generation suppliers, ComEd anticipates that its revenues and gross margins could be variable. ComEd continues to serve as the POLR for energy for all customers in its service territory. ComEd is required to make available generation service to all retail customers in its service territory, including customers that have taken energy from an alternative generation supplier. ComEds customers can "switch," that is, they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to ComEd and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on within limits. Because customers can switch, planning has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. In order to mitigate this risk with regard to its large commercial and industrial customers, on July 19, 2002, ComEd filed a request with the ICC to revise its POLR obligation in Illinois to be the back up energy supplier to certain businesses. ComEd obtained permission from the ICC to limit the availability by June 2006 of Rate 6L for 370 of its largest energy customers. These are commercial and industrial customers, including heavy industrial plants, large office buildings, government facilities and a variety of other businesses with peak demands of at least three megawatts (MWs). ComEds request affects a total of approximately 2,500 MWs. On November 14, 2002, the ICC allowed ComEds request to go into effect as of June 2003. ComEd has no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. Presently, ComEd manages the POLR obligation through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation is required to supply all of ComEds power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd load Generation must prepare for. The uncertainty increases Generations costs. As a result, and in connection with its July 2002 ICC request, ComEd is discussing the POLR obligation issue with a number of parties including those who were parties to ComEds rate request. ComEds long term PPA provides a partial hedge to its customers demand. Because the bundled rates ComEd charges its customers are frozen for several years as mentioned previously in the "Rate limitations" section, its ability to recover increased costs with increases in rates charged to these customers is limited. Therefore, to effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, ComEd has established power supply agreements with Generation that reduce exposure to the volatility of market prices through 2006. Market prices relative to ComEds bundled rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. ComEds business may be significantly impacted by the end of the regulatory transition period in 2006. Illinois electric utilities are allowed to collect CTCs from customers who choose an alternative supplier of electric generation service or choose a utilitys PPO. CTCs were intended to assist electric utilities, such as ComEd, in recovering stranded costs that might not otherwise be recoverable in a fully 86 competitive market. The CTC charge represents the difference between the competitive price of delivered energy (the sum of generation service at competitive prices and the regulated price of energy delivery) and recoveries under historical bundled rates, reduced by a mitigation factor. The CTC charges are updated annually. Over time, to facilitate the transition to a competitive market, the mitigation factor increases, thereby reducing the CTC charge. Under current law, ComEd will no longer collect CTCs at the end of 2006. In 2001, ComEd collected $110 million of CTC revenue, while in 2002, CTC revenue collected increased to $306 million due to the change in the competitive price of delivered electricity, primarily due to lower wholesale prices and more customers choosing alternative energy suppliers or the ComEd PPO. ComEd anticipates CTC revenues to be in the range of $350 million to $400 million for 2003 based on current assumptions about the competitive price of delivered energy and customers choice of electric suppliers. Based on increasing mitigation factors, ComEd expects CTC revenues to decline in 2004 through 2006. In 2006, CTC revenues are estimated to be approximately $250 to $300 million annually. In addition, the CTC is dependent on the ICCs determination of the market price of electricity. In a proceeding before the ICC, various market participants, including alternative providers and large customers, have proposed modifications to the method for determining the market price that, if accepted, could have the effect of reducing the CTC. If the ICC issues orders making the Agreement effective, modification to the method for determining the market price of electricity would have the effect of reducing CTC revenues by an estimated $65 million to $70 million annually, effective in June 2003. Under the current restructuring statute, in 2007 this revenue will drop to zero. Through 2006, ComEd will continue to have a bundled service obligation, particularly to residential and small commercial customers. ComEds current bundled service is generally provided under an all inclusive rate that does not separately break out charges for energy generation service and energy delivery service, but charges a single set of prices. Much like the CTC collections, this revenue stream is authorized by the legislature through the transition period. After the transition ends in 2006, ComEds bundled rates may be reset through a regulatory approval process, which may include traditional or innovative pricing, including performance based incentives to ComEd. In order to address post transition uncertainty, ComEd is constantly working with Illinois state and business community leadership to facilitate the development of a competitive electricity market while providing system reliability. This is particularly important as ComEds costs to provide electricity to bundled residential and small commercial customers are capped by law at 110% of market. Transparent and liquid markets will help to minimize litigation over electricity prices and provide consumers assurance of equitable pricing. At the same time, ComEd is attempting to establish a regulatory framework for the post 2006 timeframe. To offset CTC revenue loss after 2006, ComEd is pursuing measures that would provide greater productivity, quality and innovation in the work practices across Exelon. Currently, it is difficult to predict the outcome of a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates after 2006. Management believes that no one factor will solve the 2007 challenge, but that some combination of the components currently being worked on, together with other things Exelon and ComEd will do over the next four years, will address the 2007 challenge. The ability to successfully manage the end of the transition period may affect ComEds capital structure. ComEd has approximately $4.9 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2002. This goodwill was recognized and recorded in connection with the Merger. Under GAAP, the goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an analysis of ComEds cash flows. If an impairment is determined at ComEd, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed at ComEd. Presently, ComEd has sufficient cash flows to support the recorded amount of goodwill and thus, no impairment has been recorded. For a further discussion of this subject, see the Goodwill discussion within ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting 87 Estimates above. ComEds cash flows include CTCs, which will cease at the end of 2006, unless there is a legislative or regulatory change and collections from traditional bundled customers at tariffed rates. Absent another source of revenues, to replace the loss of CTC revenue, all or a portion of the goodwill may become impaired. ComEd currently believes that there are a number of alternatives that could provide cash flows to support the goodwill. Under current regulations, a significant goodwill impairment may restrict ComEds ability to pay dividends (see the Credit Issues section within Liquidity and Capital Resources above). ComEd is pursuing various solutions to address its ability to pay dividends if a significant goodwill impairment exists. However, based on Illinois legislation, goodwill impairments are excluded from determining whether or not the earnings cap amount has been met or exceeded (see the Equity return limitation discussion within Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business above). Weather affects electricity usage and, consequently, ComEds results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter of its fiscal year. However, extreme summer conditions or storms may stress ComEds transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting ComEds ability to bring power in to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds operations. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds service territory directly affect the demand for electricity. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds service territory directly affect the demand for electricity. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their use of energy. ComEds business plan reflects an increase in output growth of 1.5% per year on a weather normalized basis. However, there is continued economic uncertainty and ComEd is currently evaluating the impact of reduced economic activity on the 2003 growth rate. Recessionary economic conditions, and the associated reduced economic activity, may adversely affect ComEds results of operations. ComEds business is affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. The electric utility industry in the United States is in transition. As a result of both legislative initiatives as well as competitive pressures, the industry has been moving from a fully regulated industry, consisting primarily of vertically integrated companies that combine generation, transmission and distribution, to a partially restructured industry, consisting of competitive wholesale generation markets and continued regulation of transmission and distribution. These developments have been somewhat uneven across the states as a result of the reaction to the problems experienced in California in 2000 and the more recently publicized problems of some energy companies. Illinois has adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. A large number of states have not changed their regulatory structures. Regional Transmission Organizations / Standard Market Design. To facilitate wholesale competition in the electric industry, FERC has required jurisdictional utilities to provide open access to their transmission systems. To foster the development of large regional wholesale markets, FERC issued Order 2000, encouraging the development of regional transmission organizations (RTOs) and the elimination of trade barriers between regions. FERC has also proposed a rulemaking to mandate a standard market design (SMD) for the wholesale markets. Order 2000 and the proposed SMD rule contemplate that the jurisdictional transmission owners in a region will turn over operating authority over their transmission facilities to an RTO or other independent entity for the purpose of providing 88 open transmission access. As a result, the independent entity will become the provider of the transmission service and the transmission owners will recover their revenue requirements through the independent entity. The transmission owners will remain responsible for maintaining and physically operating their transmission facilities. The SMD rulemaking proposal would also requirethe independent entities to operate an organized bid based wholesale market for those who wish to sell their generation through the market and to implement a financially based system for dealing with congestion on transmission lines known as "locational marginal pricing" (LMP). FERC has also issued proposals to encourage RTO development, independent control of the transmission grid and expansion of the transmission grid by providing enhanced returns on equity for transmission assets. FERC Order 2000 has not led to the rapid development of RTOs and FERC has not yet finalized its SMD proposal, due in part to substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental officials. ComEd supports both of these proposals but cannot predict whether they will be successful, what impact they may ultimately have on ComEds transmission rates, revenues and operation of ComEds transmission facilities, or whether they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. To the extent that ComEd has POLR obligations, and may at some point no longer have long term supply contracts with Generation for its load, the ability of ComEd to cost effectively serve its POLR load obligation will depend on the development of such markets. Effective management of capital projects is important to ComEds business. ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities, and in other internal infrastructure projects. ComEd continues to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. ComEd expects that its capital expenditures will continue to exceed depreciation on its plant assets. ComEds base rate freeze will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2007 (see the Rate limitations discussion within Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business above). Capital Markets / Financing Environment In order to expand ComEds operations and to meet the needs of current and future customers, ComEd invests in its business. The ability to finance ComEds business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of ComEds operations and ComEds current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of ComEds liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. The ability to grow ComEds business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. ComEds business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, ComEd secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. ComEd actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Management currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, 89 maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in ComEd and Exelon, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. ComEds credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. ComEd has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require ComEd to incur higher financing costs. Equity market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans. If the markets continue to decline, Exelon may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with Exelons overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. Please refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the benefit plan assets. ComEds results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects ComEd through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the rate freezes imposed under the legislation in Illinois and price pressures due to competition, ComEd may not be able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other ComEd may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. ComEds business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which ComEd conducts its operations and make its capital expenditures. ComEd is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by ComEd and of property contaminated by hazardous substances ComEd generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, ComEd has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one source of such costs. Also, ComEd is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, ComEds reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $101 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. ComEd has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but ComEd cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover ComEds environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether ComEd will incur other significant 90 liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by ComEd, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. ComEds financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. In connection with the events of September 11, 2001, the electric industry has developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, FERC is expected to issue minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system control. These standards are expected to be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and ComEd is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. ComEd, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Exelon is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect ComEds results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect ComEds operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect ComEds operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect ComEds revenues or restrict ComEds future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect ComEds ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition in ComEds market. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on ComEds results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 91  PECO General On October 20, 2000, PECO became a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon as a result of the transactions relating to the Merger. During January 2001, Exelon undertook a restructuring to separate its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery business. As part of the restructuring, the non regulated operations and related assets and liabilities of PECO, representing the generation and enterprises business segments, were transferred to separate subsidiaries of Exelon. As a result, beginning January 2001, the operations of PECO consist of its retail electricity distribution and transmission business in southeastern Pennsylvania and its natural gas distribution business located in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. The estimated impact of the restructuring set forth herein reflects the effects of removing the generation and enterprises operations and obtaining energy and capacity from Generation under the terms of the PPA for the year ended December 31, 2000. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends PECO 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 4,333 $ 3,965 $ 368 9.3 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power 1,669 1,352 317 23.4 % Fuel 348 450 (102 ) (22.7 %) Operating and Maintenance 523 587 (64 ) (10.9 %) Depreciation and Amortization 456 416 40 9.6 % Taxes Other Than Income 244 161 83 51.6 % Total Operating Expense 3,240 2,966 274 9.2 % OPERATING INCOME 1,093 999 94 9.4 % OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (370 ) (413 ) 43 (10.4 %) Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership which holds Solely Subordinated Debentures of the Company (10 ) (10 ) Other, Net 32 46 (14 ) (30.4 %) Total Other Income and Deductions (348 ) (377 ) 29 (7.7 %) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 745 622 123 19.8 % INCOME TAXES 259 197 62 31.5 % NET INCOME 486 425 61 14.4 % Preferred Stock Dividends (8 ) (10 ) 2 (20.0 %) NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 478 $ 415 $ 63 15.2 % 92 Net Income Net income on common stock increased $63 million, or 15%, in 2002 as compared to 2001. The increase was a result of higher sales volume, favorable rate adjustments, lower operating and maintenance expense and lower interest expense on debt partially offset by increased taxes other than income and increased depreciation and amortization expense. Operating Revenue PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Deliveries(1) Residential 10,365 8,073 2,292 28.4 % Small Commercial & Industrial 7,606 5,998 1,608 26.8 % Large Commercial & Industrial 14,766 12,960 1,806 13.9 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 852 765 87 11.4 % 33,589 27,796 5,793 20.8 % Unbundled Deliveries(2) Residential 1,971 3,105 (1,134 ) (36.5 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 415 1,606 (1,191 ) (74.2 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 557 2,352 (1,795 ) (76.3 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 7 (7 ) (100.0 %) 2,943 7,070 (4,127 ) (58.4 %) Total Retail Deliveries 36,532 34,866 1,666 4.8 % (1)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Revenue(1) Residential $ 1,338 $ 1,028 $ 310 30.2 % Small Commercial & Industrial 865 682 183 26.8 % Large Commercial & Industrial 1,086 929 157 16.9 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 79 72 7 9.7 % 3,368 2,711 657 24.2 % Unbundled Revenue(2) Residential 145 235 (90 ) (38.3 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 21 81 (60 ) (74.1 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 16 64 (48 ) (75.0 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 1 (1 ) (100.0 %) 182 381 (199 ) (52.2 %) Total Electric Retail Revenues 3,550 3,092 458 14.8 % Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 234 219 15 6.8 % Total Electric Revenue $ 3,784 $ 3,311 $ 473 14.3 % (1)Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2)Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative supplier, which include a distribution charge and a CTC charge. 93 (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer Choice $ 226 Volume 133 Weather 63 Rate Changes 45 Other Effects (9 ) Electric Retail Revenue $ 458 Customer Choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers. This choice generally does not impact kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. As of December 31, 2002, the customer load served by alternative suppliers was 1,002 MW or 12.8% as compared to 1,003 MW or 13.0% as of December 31, 2001. The percent of PECOs total retail deliveries for which PECO was electric supplier was 92.0% in 2002, compared to 79.8% in 2001. As of December 31, 2002, the number of customers served by alternative suppliers was 277,805 or 18.2% as compared to December 31, 2001 of 371,500 or 24.4%. The increases in customers and the percentage of load served by PECO primarily resulted from customers selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased PECOs revenue $133 million compared to 2001, primarily related to increases in the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Weather. The weather impact was favorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer summer weather. Cooling degree days increased 15% in 2002 compared to 2001. Heating degree days increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Rate Changes. The increase in revenues attributable to rate changes primarily reflects the expiration of a 6% reduction in PECOs electric rates during the first quarter of 2001 and a $50 million increase as a result of the increase in the gross receipts tax rate effective January 1, 2002. These increases are partially offset by the timing of a $60 million rate reduction in effect for 2001 and 2002. As permitted by the Pennsylvania Electric Act, the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue has calculated a 2002 Revenue Neutral Reconciliation (RNR) adjustment to gross receipts tax rate in order to neutralize the impact of electric restructuring on its tax revenues. In January 2002, the PUC approved the RNR adjustment to the gross receipts tax rate collected from customers. Effective January 1, 2002, PECO implemented the change in the gross receipts tax rate. The RNR adjustment increases the gross receipts tax rate, which increased both PECOs annual revenues and tax obligations by approximately $50 million in 2002. The RNR adjustment was under appeal. The case was remanded to the PUC and in August 2002, the PUC ruled that PECO is properly authorized to recover these costs. In December 2002, the PUC approved the inclusion of the RNR factor in PECOs base rates eliminating the need for an annual filing to obtain approval for recovery. Other Effects. Other items affecting revenue include an $11 million settlement of CTCs by a large customer in the first quarter of 2001. 94 PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: 2002 2001 Variance Deliveries in millions of cubic feet (mmcf) 85,545 81,528 4,017 Revenue $ 549 $ 654 $ (105 ) The changes in gas revenue for 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate Changes $ (108 ) Weather 2 Volume 1 Gas Revenue $ (105 ) Rate Changes. The unfavorable variance in rates is attributable to an adjustment of the purchased gas cost recovery by the PUC in December 2001. The average rate per million cubic feet for 2002 was 20% lower than in 2001. PECOs gas rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC and are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in base rates and to recover or refund increases or decreases in certain state taxes not recovered in base rates. Effective December 1, 2002, the PUC approved a reduction in the purchased gas adjustment of 4.5%. Weather. The weather impact was favorable, as a result of colder weather in 2002, as compared to 2001. Heating degree days in PECOs service territory increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased revenue by $1 million in 2002 compared to 2001. Total deliveries to customers increased 5% in 2002 compared to 2001, primarily as a result of customer growth and higher transportation volumes Purchased Power Purchased power expense in 2002 increased $317 million as compared to 2001. The increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to $210 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier, higher PJM ancillary charges of $41 million, $38 million from higher delivery volume primarily related to electric sales and $28 million as a result of favorable weather conditions. Fuel Fuel expense in 2002 decreased $102 million as compared to 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to a $108 million decrease from lower gas prices. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense in 2002 decreased $64 million, or 11%, as compared to 2001. The decrease in O&M expense was primarily attributable to a $23 million reduction in the allowance for the uncollectible accounts during 2002, and $6 million related to lower corporate allocations. The decrease is also attributable to $18 million of employee severance costs associated with the Merger, $12 million of incremental costs related to two storms, $7 million attributable to customer choice and $5 million associated with a write off of excess and obsolete inventory, all of which occurred in 2001. These decreases are partially offset by $12 million related to additional costs associated with the deployment of automated meter reading technology during 2002. 95 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense in 2002 increased $40 million, or 10%, as compared to 2001 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Competitive Transition Charge Amortization $ 308 $ 271 $ 37 13.7 % Depreciation Expense 125 119 6 5.0 % Other Amortization Expense 23 26 (3 ) (11.5 %) Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 456 $ 416 $ 40 9.6 % The increase was primarily attributable to $37 million of additional amortization of PECOs CTC and an increase of $6 million related to depreciation expense associated with additional plant in service. The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income in 2002 increased $83 million, or 52%, as compared to 2001. The increase was primarily attributable to $72 million of additional gross receipts tax related to additional revenues and an increase in the gross receipts tax rate on electric revenue effective January 1, 2002. The increase was also attributable to $15 million related to an additional assessment of real estate taxes in 2002. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $4 million for state sales and use tax in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership (COMRPS). Interest charges decreased $43 million, or 10%, in 2002 as compared to 2001. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower interest expense on long term debt of $35 million as a result of less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates, and $8 million in interest expense on a loan from ComEd in 2001. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions excluding interest charges decreased $14 million, or 30%, in, 2002 as compared to 2001. The decrease in other income and deductions was primarily attributable to intercompany interest income of $10 million, a gain on the settlement of an interest rate swap of $6 million and the favorable settlement of a customer contract of $3 million, all of which occurred in 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 34.8% in 2002 as compared to 31.7% in 2001. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to an unfavorable tax adjustments recorded in 2002. Preferred Stock Dividends Preferred stock dividends in 2002 were consistent as compared to 2001. 96 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2000 Summary Financial Information PECO Components of Variance 2001 2000 Restructuring Impact Normal Operations Total OPERATING REVENUES $ 3,965 $ 5,950 $ (2,577 ) $ 592 $ (1,985 ) Purchased Power and Fuel 1,802 2,127 (793 ) 468 (325 ) Operating and Maintenance 587 1,791 (1,299 ) 95 (1,204 ) Merger Related Costs 248 (181 ) (67 ) (248 ) Depreciation and Amortization 416 325 (142 ) 233 91 Taxes Other Than Income 161 237 (71 ) (5 ) (76 ) Total Operating Expenses 2,966 4,728 (2,486 ) 724 (1,762 ) OPERATING INCOME 999 1,222 (91 ) (132 ) (223 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (413 ) (463 ) 48 2 50 Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership, which holds Solely Subordinated Debentures of the Company (10 ) (8 ) (2 ) (2 ) Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net (41 ) 41 41 Other, Net 46 41 (19 ) 24 5 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 622 751 (21 ) (108 ) (129 ) INCOME TAXES 197 268 26 (97 ) (71 ) NET INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 425 483 (47 ) (11 ) (58 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE (net of income taxes) 24 (24 ) (24 ) NET INCOME 425 507 (71 ) (11 ) (82 ) PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS (10 ) (10 ) NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 415 $ 497 $ (71 ) $ (11 ) $ (82 ) Net Income Net income from normal operations decreased $11 million, or 3% in 2001 as compared to 2000. PECOs results from normal operations improved as a result of lower margins due to the unplanned return of certain commercial and industrial customers, milder weather, increased depreciation and amortization expense and higher interest expense partially offset by favorable rate adjustments. 97 Operating Revenues PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2001 2000 Variance % Change Bundled Deliveries(1) Residential 8,073 9,325 (1,252 ) (13.4 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 5,998 3,918 2,080 53.1 % Large Commercial & Industrial 12,960 8,292 4,668 56.3 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 765 479 286 59.7 % 27,796 22,014 5,782 26.3 % Unbundled Deliveries(2) Residential 3,105 1,986 1,119 56.3 % Small Commercial & Industrial 1,606 3,550 (1,944 ) (54.8 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 2,352 7,404 (5,052 ) (68.2 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 7 301 (294 ) (97.7 %) 7,070 13,241 (6,171 ) (46.6 %) Total Retail Deliveries 34,866 35,255 (389 ) (1.1 %) (1)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. Electric Revenue 2001 2000 Variance % Change Bundled Revenue(1) Residential $ 1,028 $ 1,113 $ (85 ) (7.6 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 682 422 260 61.6 % Large Commercial & Industrial 929 532 397 74.6 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 72 47 25 53.2 % 2,711 2,114 597 28.2 % Unbundled Revenue(2) Residential 235 135 100 74.1 % Small Commercial & Industrial 81 154 (73 ) (47.4 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 64 180 (116 ) (64.4 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 1 11 (10 ) (90.9 %) 381 480 (99 ) (20.6 %) Total Electric Retail Revenues 3,092 2,594 498 19.2 % Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 219 247 (28 ) (11.3 %) Total Electric Revenue $ 3,311 $ 2,841 $ 470 16.5 % (1)Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2)Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative energy supplier, which include a distribution charge and a CTC charge. 98 (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues for 2001, as compared to 2000, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer Choice $ 276 Rate Changes 241 Weather (5 ) Other Effects (14 ) Retail Revenue $ 498 Customer Choice. All PECO customers had the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers throughout 2001. This choice generally does not impact kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. Customers who are served by an alternative supplier continue to pay CTCs. As of December 31, 2001, the customer load served by alternative suppliers was 1,003 MWs or 13.0% as compared to the same prior year period of 2,631 MWs or 34.9%. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the percent of load sold by PECO increased by 17.2% to 79.8% of total retail deliveries as compared to 62.6% in 2000. This reduction in the customers and the percentage of load served by alternative suppliers, primarily resulted from small and large commercial and industrial customers selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier. As of December 31, 2001, the number of customers served by alternative suppliers was 371,500 or 24.4% as compared to December 31, 2000 of 269,395 or 18.0%. The increase from the prior year is primarily a result of the CDS agreements for residential customers with the New Power and Green Mountain. As of December 31, 2001, there were 227,349 residential customers assigned to these generation providers as part of the agreement. Rate Changes. The increase in revenues attributable to rate changes reflects the expiration of a 6% reduction in PECOs electric rates in effect for 2000, partially offset by a $60 million rate reduction in effect for 2001. Weather. The weather impact was unfavorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer winter weather partially offset by warmer summer weather. Cooling degree days increased 34% in 2001 compared to 2000 while heating degree days decreased 12% in 2001 compared to 2000. Other Effects. Other items affecting revenue during 2001 include: Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, lower delivery volume affected PECOs revenue by $21 million compared to 2000 primarily related to increases in the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Other. The payment of $29 million to Generation related to nuclear decommissioning cost recovery under an agreement effective September 2001 partially offset by an $11 million settlement of CTCs by a large customer in the first quarter of 2001. PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: 2001 2000 Variance Deliveries in mmcf 81,528 91,686 (10,158 ) Revenue $ 654 $ 532 $ 122 99 The changes in gas revenue for 2001, as compared to 2000, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate Changes $ 174 Weather (38 ) Volume (14 ) Gas Revenue $ 122 Rate Changes. The favorable variance in price is attributable to an adjustment of the purchased gas cost recovery by the PUC effective in December 2000. The average price per million cubic feet for all customers for 2001 was 38% higher than in 2000. Weather. The unfavorable weather impact is attributable to warmer winter weather conditions. Heating degree days decreased 12% in 2001 compared to 2000. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, lower delivery volume affected revenue by $14 million compared to 2000. Total volume of sales to retail customers decreased 11% compared to 2000, primarily as a result of slower economic conditions in 2001 offset by customer growth. Purchased Power and Fuel Purchased power and fuel expense for 2001 increased $468 million, or 35%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense was primarily attributable to $293 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier, $174 million from increased prices related to gas and higher PJM ancillary charges of $31 million. These increases were partially offset by $24 million as a result of unfavorable weather conditions and $14 million attributable to lower delivery volume related to gas. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense for 2001 increased $95 million, or 19%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase in O&M expense was primarily attributable to $20 million related to an increased allocation of corporate expense, $18 million related to additional employee severance costs in 2001 associated with the Merger, $17 million as a result of higher administrative and general costs for functions previously performed at Corporate, $14 million related to the deployment of automated meter reading technology during 2001, $12 million of incremental costs related to two storms in 2001, $9 million related to additional uncollectible accounts expense and $5 million associated with the write off of excess and obsolete inventory. Merger Related Costs Merger related costs charged to income in 2000 were $248 million consisting of $132 million of direct incremental costs and $116 million for employee costs. Direct incremental costs represent expenses associated with completing the Merger, including professional fees, regulatory approval and settlement costs, and settlement of compensation arrangements. Employee costs represent estimated severance payments and pension and postretirement benefits provided under Exelons merger separation plan for 642 eligible PECO employees who were expected to be involuntarily terminated before December 2002 upon completion of integration activities for the merged companies. Merger related costs attributable to the operations transferred to Generation, Enterprises and BSC in the corporate restructuring were $181 million. The remaining $67 million is attributable to PECOs energy delivery segment. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 100 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense for 2001 increased $233 million, or 127%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase was primarily attributable to $214 million of additional amortization of PECOs CTC and an increase of $19 million related to depreciation expense associated with additional plant in service. The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income for 2001 decreased $5 million, or 3%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The decrease was primarily attributable to the elimination of the gross receipts tax on gas sales effective July 1, 2000. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on COMRPS. Interest charges for 2001 were consistent as compared to 2000. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates As part of the corporate restructuring, PECOs unconsolidated affiliates were transferred to Generation and Enterprises. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions excluding interest charges and equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates increased $24 million, or 109% in 2001 as compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase in other income and deductions was primarily attributable to intercompany interest income of $10 million in the third quarter of 2001, a gain on the settlement of an interest rate swap of $6 million and the favorable settlement of a customer contract of $3 million. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 31.7% in 2001 as compared to 35.7% in 2000. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to tax benefits associated with the implementation of state tax planning strategies, the reduced impact of investment tax credit amortization and other tax adjustments recorded in 2001. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle In 2000, PECO recorded a benefit of $40 million ($24 million, net of tax) representing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting method for nuclear outage costs in conjunction with the synchronization of accounting policies in connection with the Merger. Preferred Stock Dividends Preferred stock dividends for 2001 were consistent as compared to 2000. 101  Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing including the issuance of commercial paper. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt and payment of dividends. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations in 2002 were $880 million compared to $938 million in 2001. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities was primarily attributable to a $79 million decrease in other operating activities primarily a result of the change in pension obligation, a $26 million decrease in working capital, a $26 million decrease in deferred income taxes and a $23 million decrease in the provision for uncollectible accounts, partially offset by a $61 million increase in net income and a $37 million increase in CTC amortization. PECOs cash flow from operating activities primarily results from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices. PECOs future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve operating cost reductions, and the impact of the economy, weather and customer choice on its revenues. Although the amounts may vary from period to period as a result of the uncertainties inherent in its business, PECO expects that it will continue to provide a reliable and steady source of internal cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. PECO participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however Exelon made a $150 million discretionary plan contribution in 2002, none of which was funded by PECO. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary plan contribution of $300 million to $350 million in 2003. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities in 2002 were $252 million compared to $241 million in 2001. The increase in cash flows used in investing activities was primarily attributable to an increase in capital expenditures. PECOs investing activities during 2002 were funded primarily by operating activities. PECOs projected capital expenditures for 2003 are $270 million. Approximately one half of the budgeted 2003 expenditures are for capital additions to support customer and load growth and the remainder for additions and upgrades to existing facilities. PECO anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2002 were $597 million compared to $683 million in 2001. Cash flows used in financing activities are primarily attributable to debt service and payment of dividends to Exelon. In 2002, PECO issued $225 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds. The proceeds of these bonds were used to repay commercial paper that PECO used to pay $222 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at maturity. Also in 2002, PECO made principal payments of $326 million on transition bonds and had net issuances of $200 million of commercial paper. PECO paid a $340 million dividend to Exelon during 2002 compared to a $342 million dividend in 2001. 102 Credit Issues PECO meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. PECO, along with Exelon, ComEd and Generation, participates in a $1.5 billion unsecured 364 day revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The credit facility became effective November 22, 2002 and includes a term out option that allows any outstanding borrowings at the end of the revolving credit period to be repaid on November 21, 2004. Exelon may increase or decrease the sublimits of each of the participants upon written notification to the banks. As of December 31, 2002, PECOs sublimit was $400 million. The credit facility is used by PECO principally to support its commercial paper program. At December 31, 2002, PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects $200 million in commercial paper outstanding. For 2002, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.51%. Certain of the credit agreements to which PECO is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. PECOs threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, PECO was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. At December 31, 2002, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.8 billion receivable from Exelon, consisted of 28% common stock, 2% notes payable, 3% preferred securities and COMRPS, and 67% long term debt. Long term debt included $4.3 billion of transition bonds issued by PECO Energy Transition Trust representing 50% of capitalization. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany utility money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether such funding results in mutual economic benefits to each of the participants, although Exelon is not permitted to be a net borrower from the money pool. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. There were no material money pool transactions in 2002. PECOs access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. None of PECOs borrowings are subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows PECOs securities ratings at December 31, 2002: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings PECO Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Under PUHCA, PECO is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon and can pay dividends only from retained or current earnings. At December 31, 2002, PECO had retained earnings of $401 million. 103 Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations PECOs contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 5,644 $ 689 $ 883 $ 1,141 $ 2,931 Notes Payable 200 200 COMRPS 128 128 Operating Leases 20 5 7 5 3 Total Contractual Obligations $ 5,992 $ 894 $ 890 $ 1,146 $ 3,062 See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt see Note 11 notes payable see Note 10 COMRPS see Note 15 operating leases see Note 18 PECOs commercial commitments as of December 31, 2002 representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, including obligations to make payment on behalf of other parties as well as financing arrangements to secure obligations of PECO, are as follows: Expiration within After 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Credit Facility(a) $ 400 $ 400 $ $ $ Letters of Credit (non debt)(b) 29 29 Letter of Credit (Long term Debt)(c) 17 17 Insured Long Term Debt(d) 154 154 Surety Bonds(e) 46 46 Total Commercial Commitments $ 646 $ 492 $ $ $ 154 (a)Credit Facility PECO, along with Exelon, ComEd and Generation, maintain a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility to support commercial paper issuances. PECO has a $400 million sublimit under the credit facility. At December 31, 2002, there are no borrowings against the credit facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, PECO had $200 million in outstanding commercial paper. (b)Letters of Credit (non debt) PECO and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (c)Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt) Direct pay letters of credit issued in connection with variable rate debt in order to provide liquidity in the event that it is not possible to remarket all of the debt as required following specific events, including changes in the basis of determining the interest rate on the debt. (d)Insured Long Term Debt Borrowings that have been credit enhanced through the purchase of insurance coverage equal to the amount of principal outstanding plus interest. 104 (e)Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial surety bonds, excluding bid bonds. Off Balance Sheet Obligations PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2005. PECO entered into this agreement to diversify its funding sources at favorable floating interest rates. At December 31, 2002, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $164 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125," and a $61 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable which was accounted for as a long term note payable. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for these receivables. The Agreement requires PECO to maintain the $225 million interest, which, if not met, requires cash, which would otherwise be received by PECO under this program, to be held in escrow until the requirement is met. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PECO met this requirement. Critical Accounting Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business PECO faces a number of challenges in achieving its vision and keeping its commitments to its customers and investors. These challenges that will affect how PECO manages its business are described below. PECO must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing its business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. PECO is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. PECO is regulated by the PUC, which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between PECO and its affiliates. PECO is also subject to regulation by FERC, which regulates transmission rates, certain other aspects of its business and gas pipelines. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which PECO does business, its ability to undertake specified actions and the costs of its operations. PECO is involved in a number of regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of PECOs costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, PECO looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grant some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. 105 PECO must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Each year, increases in both customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues, and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. PECO must manage its costs due to the rate caps imposed on PECO. Rate caps in effect at PECO currently limit PECOs ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. PECO is subject to agreed upon rate reductions of $200 million, in aggregate, for the period 2002 through 2005 and caps (subject to limited exceptions for significant increases in Federal or state income taxes or other significant changes in law or regulation that do not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return) on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 as a result of settlements previously reached with the PUC. As a result, PECOs future results of operations will depend on the ability of PECO to deliver electricity and natural gas, in a cost efficient manner, and to realize cost reductions to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. PECO has lost and will lose energy customers to other generation service providers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of PECO will vary because of customer choice of generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Pennsylvania, all of PECOs retail electric customers can choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative suppliers. If customers do not choose an alternative generation supplier PECO, is currently generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in its service territory at fixed rates. In addition, customers who choose an alternative generation supplier may later return to PECO. PECO remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation supplier. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation provider, PECOs revenues are likely to decline. At December 31, 2002, approximately 10% of PECOs small C&I load, 7% of its large C&I load and 21% of its residential load were purchasing their generation service from an alternative electric generation supplier. PECOs Electric Restructuring Settlement established MST for residential and commercial customers such that if, on January 1, 2003, 50% of PECOs residential and commercial customers (by number of customers for residential and small commercial classes, and by load for large commercial classes) are not obtaining generation service from alternative generation suppliers, then non shopping customers, up to the MSTs level, will be randomly assigned to alternative generation suppliers. The assigned customers have the right, at any time, to return to PECO or to switch to another supplier. The number of customers choosing alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that PECO is authorized to charge by the PUC. 106 PECO continues to serve as the POLR for energy for all customers in its service territory. PECO is required to make available generation service to all retail customers in its service territory, including customers that have taken energy from an alternative generation supplier. PECO customers can "switch," that is, they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to PECO and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on, within limits. Because customers can switch, planning for PECO has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. Presently, PECO manages the POLR obligation through a full requirements contract with Generation, under which Generation supplies PECOs power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of PECO load that Generation must prepare for. PECOs long term PPA provides a hedge to its customers demand. Because the bundled rates PECO charges its customers are capped through 2010, as mentioned previously in the "Rate limitations" section, its ability to recover increased costs with increases in rates charged to these customers is limited. Therefore, to effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, PECO has established power supply agreements with Generation that reduce exposure to the volatility of market prices through 2010. Market prices relative to PECOs bundled rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. PECOs business may be significantly impacted by the end of the PECO regulatory transition period in 2010. In Pennsylvania, as a mechanism for utilities to recover their allowed stranded costs, the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act) provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customers bills. CTCs are assessed to and collected from all customers who have been assigned stranded cost responsibility and access the utilities transmission and distribution systems. As the CTCs are based on access to the utilitys transmission and distribution system, they are assessed regardless of whether such customer purchases electricity from the utility or an alternative electric generation supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that the utilitys right to collect CTCs is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs are being recovered, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. PECO has been authorized by the PUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion ($4.6 billion of unamortized costs at December 31, 2002) over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. PECOs recovery of stranded costs is based on the level of transition charges established in the settlement of PECOs restructuring case and the projected annual retail sales in PECOs service territory. Recovery of transition charges for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. In 2002, revenue attributable to stranded cost recovery was $850 million and is scheduled to increase to $932 million by 2010, the final year of stranded cost recovery. Amortization of PECOs stranded cost recovery, which is a regulatory asset, is included in depreciation and amortization. The amortization expense for 2002 was $308 million and will increase to $879 million by 2010. Thus, PECOs results will be adversely affected over the remaining period ending December 31, 2010 by the reduction in the unamortized balance of stranded costs and therefore the return received on that unamortized balance. Weather affects electricity and gas usage and, consequently, PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing 107 differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, PECO typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter. Extreme summer conditions or storms may stress PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting its ability to bring power in to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on PECOs operations. Economic conditions and activity in PECOs service territory directly affect the demand for electricity. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their use of energy. Sales growth on an annual basis is expected to be 0.6% in PECOs service territory. In the long term, output growth for electricity is expected to be 0.6% per year. However, there is continued economic uncertainty. Recessionary economic conditions, and the associated reduced economic activity, may adversely affect PECOs results of operations. Effective management of capital projects is important to PECOs business. PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities, and in other internal infrastructure projects. PECO continues to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. PECOs base rate caps will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any of these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2011 (see the section titled "PECO must manage its costs due to the rate caps imposed on PECO" above). Capital Markets / Financing Environment In order to expand PECOs operations and to meet the needs of its current and future customers, PECO invests in its business. PECOs ability to finance its business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of its operations and PECOs current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of PECOs liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. PECOs ability to grow its business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. PECOs business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, PECO secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. PECO actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. PECO currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund its operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the need arises. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in PECO and Exelon, general economic and capital market conditions and the success of current projects. 108 PECOs credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. PECO has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require PECO to incur higher financing costs. Equity market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans. If the markets continue to decline, PECO may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with its overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. Please refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the benefit plan assets. PECOs results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects PECO through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the rate caps imposed under the legislation in Pennsylvania, PECO is not able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other PECO may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. PECOs business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which PECO conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. PECO is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by PECO and of property contaminated by hazardous substances PECO generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, PECO has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations will be one source of such costs. Also, PECO is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, PECOs reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $40 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. PECO has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but PECO cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover PECOs environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether PECO will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by PECO, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. PECOs financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. In connection with the events of September 11, 2001, the electric and gas industries have developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, FERC issued minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system 109 control. These standards will be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. The gas industry, through the American Gas Association, developed physical security guidelines that were accepted by the U.S. Department of Transportation. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and PECO is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. PECO, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Exelon is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect PECOs results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect PECOs operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect PECOs operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect PECOs revenues or restrict PECOs future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect PECOs ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within PECOs markets. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse affect on PECOs results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 110  Generation General On October 20, 2000, Exelon became the parent corporation for PECO and ComEd as a result of the completion of the transactions related to the Merger. Generation has included the ComEds generation related results of operations in its consolidated financial statements beginning October 20, 2000. The estimated impact of the Merger set forth herein reflects the effects ComEds generation related results of operations prior to October 20, 2000. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends Generation 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 32 0.5 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power 3,294 3,106 188 6.1 % Fuel 959 889 70 7.9 % Operating and Maintenance 1,656 1,528 128 8.4 % Depreciation 276 282 (6 ) (2.1 )% Taxes Other Than Income 164 149 15 10.1 % Total Operating Expense 6,349 5,954 395 6.6 % OPERATING INCOME 509 872 (363 ) (41.6 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (75 ) (115 ) 40 34.8 % Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net 87 90 (3 ) (3.3 )% Other, Net 83 (8 ) 91 n.m. Total Other Income and Deductions 95 (33 ) 128 n.m. INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 604 839 (235 ) (28.0 )% INCOME TAXES 217 327 (110 ) (33.6 )% INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 387 512 (125 ) (24.4 )% CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES, (net of income taxes) 13 12 1 8.3 % NET INCOME $ 400 $ 524 $ (124 ) (23.7 )% Net Income Generations net income decreased by $124 million, or 24% in 2002. Net income was adversely impacted by a lower margin on wholesale energy sales due to depressed market prices for energy, a reduced supply of low cost nuclear generation, and increased operating and maintenance expense. The decrease was partially offset by increased revenue from the acquisition of two generating plants in April 2002, increased investment income, decreased depreciation expense and decreased interest expense. 111 Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased $32 million, or 1% in 2002. Sales to affiliates increased by $124 million. This increase was attributable to weather related increased deliveries to PECO and ComEd. Revenue from marketing and trading decreased by $143 million, which was due to lower market prices on sales and losses sustained from proprietary trading activity. Market sales were negatively impacted by lower average market sales prices of $6.25/MWh. Excluding the benefit of $99 million of margin associated with the Texas plants acquisition, average market prices realized for the year ended December 31, 2002 were $7.44/MWh lower than the same 2001 period. The effect of the lower sales prices were partially offset by increased market sales volumes. Trading margin decreased $36 million, reflecting a $29 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to a $7 million gain in the same 2001 period. Purchased Power Purchased power expense increased $188 million, or 6% in 2002. This increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a 15.8% increase in purchased power volume. This was partially offset by average purchased power cost decreasing by $4.11/MWh for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to the same 2001 period. This decrease in average purchased power cost was principally attributed to lower realized wholesale market prices realized and reduced transmission costs. Fuel Fuel expense increased $70 million in 2002. The increase was principally attributed to increased fossil fuel purchases related to new plant acquisitions in Texas and New England, as well as increased peaking production due to summer demand. Operating Statistics For the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, Generations sales and the supply of these sales, excluding the trading portfolio, were as follows: Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Energy Delivery 118,473 116,917 1.3 % Exelon Energy 5,502 6,876 (20.0 )% Market Sales 83,565 72,333 15.5 % Total Sales 207,540 196,126 5.8 % Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Nuclear Generation (1) 115,854 116,839 (0.8 )% Purchases non trading portfolio (2) 78,710 67,942 15.8 % Fossil and Hydro Generation 12,976 11,345 14.4 % Total Supply 207,540 196,126 5.8 % (1)Excluding AmerGen. (2)Including PPAs with AmerGen. 112 Trading volume of 69,933 GWhs and 5,754 GWhs for the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, is not included in the table above. Generations average revenue, supply cost, and margin on energy sales for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2002 2001 % Change Average Revenue Energy Delivery $ 33.48 $ 32.55 2.9 % Exelon Energy 44.87 41.53 8.0 % Market Sales 30.75 37.00 (16.9 )% Total excluding the trading portfolio 32.68 34.51 (5.3 )% Average Supply Cost (1) excluding trading portfolio $ 20.14 $ 20.26 (0.6 )% Average Margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 12.54 $ 14.25 (12.0 )% (1)Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs. 2002 2001 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (1) 92.7 % 94.4 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh $ 13.00 $ 12.78 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 41.83 $ 45.94 (1)Including AmerGen and excluding Salem. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense increased $128 million, or 9%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to the same period in 2001. The increase was due to the additional O&M expense of $80 million arising from an increased number of nuclear plant refueling outages during 2002 compared to 2001. Also, O&M expense increased $21 million due to plants acquired in 2002, as well as additional allocated corporate costs, including executive severance. These additional expenses were partially offset by other operating cost reductions, including $8 million related to fewer employees, a $10 million reduction in Generations severance accrual and other cost reductions from Exelons Cost Management Initiative. The severance reduction represents a reversal of costs previously charged to operating expense. Depreciation Depreciation expense decreased $6 million, or 2%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to 2001. This decrease is due to a $42 million reduction in depreciation expense arising from the extension of the useful lives on certain generation facilities in 2001, partially offset by $32 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service, including the Southeast Chicago Energy Project in July 2002, and two generating plants acquired in April 2002. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased $15 million, or 10%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to the same period in 2001 due primarily to an $8 million increase in property taxes. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $40 million, or 35%, for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to the same period in 2001. The decrease is due to $19 million of lower interest related to a lower interest rate on the spent nuclear fuel obligation, and $33 million of lower affiliate interest expense. This decrease was partially offset by a $21 million increase in interest expense due to newly acquired long term debt. 113 Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased $3 million, or 3%, in 2002 compared to 2001. This decrease was due to a $5 million decrease in Generations equity earnings in AmerGen, primarily due to an increase in pension, medical, and incentive cost, partially offset by an increase in revenue. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $2 million in Generations equity earnings in Sithe. Other, Net Other, Net increased $91 million in 2002, compared to 2001. The increase was primarily due to a $103 million increase in decommissioning trust fund investment income, partially offset by a $6 million decrease in affiliate interest income, and a $6 million decrease due to losses on the disposal and retirement of Generation assets. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 35.9% for 2002 compared to 39.0% for 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to tax exempt interest deductions in 2002 and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2002, Generation adopted SFAS No. 141 resulting in a benefit of $13 million (net of income taxes of $9 million). On January 1, 2001, Generation adopted SFAS No. 133, as amended, resulting in a benefit of $12 million (net of income taxes of $7 million). Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 The October 20, 2000 merger of PECO and Unicom, and the January 1, 2001 corporate restructuring, significantly impacted Generations results of operations. To provide a more meaningful analysis of results of operations, the financial analysis below identifies the portion of the components of net income variance that is attributable to the former ComEd generation business unit results of operations and the portion of the variance that results from normal operations attributable to changes in Generations underlying operations. The merger variance represents the former ComEd generation business unit results for the year ended December 31, 2000 prior to the October 20, 2000 acquisition date as well as the effect of merger related costs incurred in 2000. The 2000 effects of the merger and 114 restructuring were developed using estimates of various items, including allocation of corporate overheads and intercompany transactions. Components of Variance Generation 2001 2000 Variance Merger Variance Normal Operations OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,826 $ 3,274 $ 3,552 $ 2,772 $ 780 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power and Fuel 3,995 1,846 2,149 1,690 459 Operating & Maintenance 1,528 800 728 868 (140 ) Depreciation 282 123 159 83 76 Taxes Other Than Income 149 64 85 108 (23 ) Total Operating Expenses 5,954 2,833 3,121 2,749 372 OPERATING INCOME 872 441 431 23 408 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (115 ) (41 ) (74 ) (33 ) (41 ) Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net 90 4 86 86 Other, Net (8 ) 16 (24 ) (24 ) Total Other Income and Deductions (33 ) (21 ) (12 ) (33 ) 21 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECTS OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 839 420 419 (10 ) 429 INCOME TAXES 327 160 167 (9 ) 176 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECTS OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 512 260 252 (1 ) 253 CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (net of income taxes) 12 12 12 NET INCOME $ 524 $ 260 $ 264 $ (1 ) $ 265 Net Income Generations net income increased $265 million for 2001, compared to 2000 excluding the effects of the Merger. This increase was primarily attributable to higher margins on increased market and affiliate wholesale energy sales, coupled with reduced operating expenses at the nuclear plants, partially offset by additional depreciation and decommissioning expense. Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased $780 million for 2001, compared to 2000 excluding the effects of the Merger. Operating revenue increased due to higher market prices for energy. The increase in wholesale market prices, particularly in the PJM and MAIN regions, was conversely affected by higher fossil fuel prices. In addition, 2001 energy marketing activity resulted in mark to market gains of $16 million on non trading contracts, and $14 million on trading contracts. This was partially offset by $6 million in realized trading losses. Purchased Power and Fuel Purchased power and fuel costs increased $459 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. This increase was due to increased fuel prices in the first quarter of 2001 115 compared to the same period in the prior year. Also, Generation experienced an increase in volume sold during the peak demand season in 2001 compared to 2000. Operating and Maintenance O&M expenses decreased $140 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. O&M expenses were favorably affected by reductions in labor costs due to a decline in the number of employees and fewer nuclear outages in 2001 than in 2000, which offset the effect of increases in litigation related expenses of $30 million. Depreciation Depreciation expense increased $76 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. The increase in depreciation expense was primarily due to an increase in decommissioning expense of $140 million resulting from the discontinuance of regulatory accounting practices associated with decommissioning costs for the former ComEd operating nuclear generating stations, partially offset by a $90 million reduction in depreciation and decommissioning expense attributable to the extension of estimated service lives of generating plants. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income taxes decreased $23 million for 2001, compared to 2000. Taxes other than income taxes decreased as a result of a reduction in payroll taxes due to a decline in the number of employees and a reduction in property taxes due to property value reassessments. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $41 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. This increase was primarily attributable to increased interest charges of $23 million on the note payable to Exelon, interest charges of $26 million due to the issuance of $700 million of 6.95% senior unsecured notes in a 144A offering in June 2001, $23 million of additional interest due to a full year of interest charges on the spent fuel obligation compared to only two months in 2000 for the former ComEd generating stations, and $15 million of interest charges from affiliates. These increases were partially offset by capitalized interest of approximately $17 million. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $86 million for 2001, compared to 2000. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased primarily due to additional earnings of AmerGen and Sithe of $86 million in 2001 reflecting a full year of operations for Sithe and AmerGens Oyster Creek plant in 2001. Other, Net Other, Net decreased $24 million for 2001, compared to 2000. Investment income decreased by $29 million due to net realized losses of $127 million partially offset by interest and dividend income of $67 million on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds reflecting the discontinuance of regulatory accounting practices associated with nuclear decommissioning costs for the nuclear stations formerly owned by ComEd. The decrease in investment income was also offset by increased income of $31 million due to money market interest and interest on the loan to Sithe recorded in 2001. 116 Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.0% for 2001 as compared to 38.1% for 2000. The increase in the effective income tax rate was primarily attributable to a higher effective state income tax rate due to operations in Illinois subsequent to the merger and a reduction in investment tax credit amortization. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2001, Generation adopted SFAS No. 133, resulting in a benefit of $12 million (net of income taxes of $7 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financings including the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, investments in new and existing ventures, repayments of maturing debt and the payment of dividends. Any future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations were $1,138 million in 2002, compared to $1,274 million in 2001. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities is primarily due to a $124 million decrease in net income, and a $197 million decrease in cash flow related to working capital. This decrease is partially offset by a $185 million increase in cash flows related to other operating activities not included in working capital. Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including Generations affiliated companies, as well as settlements arising from Generations trading activities. Generations future cash flow from operating activities will depend upon future demand and market prices for energy and the ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Generation participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon made a discretionary plan contribution in 2002 of $150 million, of which $60 million was funded by Generation. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary plan contribution in 2003 of $300 million to $350 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,674 million in 2002, compared to $1,043 million in 2001. Capital expenditures, including investment in nuclear fuel, were $990 million in 2002. In addition to the 2002 capital expenditures, Generation purchased two natural gas and oil fired generating plants from TXU on April 25, 2002. The $443 million purchase was funded with commercial paper, which Exelon issued and Generation is repaying from cash flows from operations. The balance of Generations short term borrowings at December 31, 2002 attributable to the plants purchased from TXU, was approximately $70 million. Investing activities also included a $2 million use of cash for the November 1, 2002 purchase of the Sithe New England assets. The $2 million use is net of $12 million of cash acquired. The remainder of the purchase was financed with a $534 million note issued to Sithe. 117 In February 2002, Generation entered into an agreement to loan AmerGen up to $75 million at an interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 2.25%. In July 2002, the loan agreement and the loan were increased to $100 million and the maturity date was extended to July 1, 2003. As of December 31, 2002, the balance of the loan to AmerGen was $35 million. Generation has agreed to make capital contributions to AmerGen of 50% of the purchase price of any acquisitions that AmerGen makes. Generations capital expenditures are expected to be funded by internally generated funds, Generations borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by financing activities were $370 million in 2002, compared to cash used of $11 million in 2001. During 2002, Generation obtained a $348 million loan from Exelon, which included $331 million for the acquisition of two generating plants. The prior year amount represented net distributions of $136 million to Exelon and the issuance of long term debt of $821 million. Also, in 2001, Generation repaid $696 million it had borrowed from Exelon related to the acquisition of a 49.9% interest in Sithe. Financing activities in 2002 exclude the non cash issuance of a $534 million note issued to Sithe for the November 1, 2002 acquisition of the Sithe New England assets and approximately $1.0 billion of Sithe New England long term debt, which is reflected in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002. Credit Issues Generation meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through intercompany borrowings from Exelon and the issuance of commercial paper. Generation, along with Exelon, ComEd and PECO, participates in a $1.5 billion unsecured 364 day revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The credit facility became effective on November 22, 2002 and includes a term out option that allows any outstanding borrowings at the end of the revolving credit period to be repaid on November 21, 2004. Exelon may increase or decrease the sublimits of each of the participants upon written notification to these banks. As of December 31, 2002, there was no sublimit for Generation. The credit facility is expected to be used by Generation principally to support its commercial paper program. Certain of the credit agreements to which Generation is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes certain changes in working capital and interest on Sithe New Englands debt. Generations threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 3.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, Generation was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. At December 31, 2002, Generations capital structure consisted of 49% common stock, 15% notes payable and 36% long term debt. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the Exelon corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and Business Services Company may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether such funding results in mutual economic benefits to each of the participants, although Exelon is not permitted to be a net borrower from the money pool. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or specific borrowing rates if the funds are provided by external financing. There have been no material money pool transactions in 2002. 118 Generations access to the capital markets and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. None of Generations borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. From time to time Generation enters into energy commodity and other derivative transactions that require the maintenance of investment grade ratings. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would allow the counterparty to terminate the derivative and settle the transaction on a net present value basis. The following table shows Generations securities ratings at December 31, 2002: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 A BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Under PUHCA, Generation can only pay dividends from undistributed or current earnings. Generation is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. At December 31, 2002, Generation had undistributed earnings of $924 million. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations Generations contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 are as follows: Payment Due within Due After 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 2,137 $ 5 $ 1 $ 1,036 $ 1,095 Short Term Note to Sithe 534 534 Note Payable to Exelon Corporation 329 329 Operating Leases 592 32 45 51 464 Purchased Power Obligations 14,729 2,677 2,987 1,856 7,209 Spent Nuclear Fuel Obligations 858 858 Total Contractual Obligations $ 19,179 $ 3,577 $ 3,033 $ 2,943 $ 9,626 See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: Long Term Debt see Note 10 Short Term Note to Sithe see Note 4 Notes payable to Exelon for the acquisition of generating plants from TXU see note 16 Operating Leases see Note 13 Purchased Power Obligations see Note 13 Spent Nuclear Fuel Obligation see Note 9 Generation has a long term supply agreement through December 2022 with Distrigas to guarantee physical gas supply to Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 generating units. Under the agreement, prices are indexed to New England gas markets. 119 Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Generations current estimate of decommissioning costs for the nuclear plants owned by Generation is $7.4 billion in current year (2003) dollars. Nuclear decommissioning activity occurs primarily after a plant is retired. Based on the extended license lives of its nuclear plants, Generation will begin decommissioning its plants from 2014 through 2056, with expenditures primarily occurring when its operating plants are decommissioned, during the period from 2029 through 2056. At December 31, 2002, the decommissioning liability, which is recognized over the life of the plant, was recorded in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as Accumulated Depreciation and Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities in the amounts of $2.8 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $3.1 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2002. Generations commercial commitments as of December 31, 2002, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, including obligations to make payment on behalf of other parties and financing arrangements to secure its obligations, are as follows: Expiration within 2008 and beyond Total 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Credit Facility(a) $ $ $ $ $ Letters of Credit (non debt)(b) 11 6 5 Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt)(c) 346 195 151 Performance Guarantees(d) 101 101 Surety Bonds(e) 43 43 Energy Marketing Contract Guarantees(f) 1 1 Nuclear Insurance Guarantee(g) 134 134 Sithe New England Equity Guarantee(h) 38 38 Total Commercial Commitments $ 674 $ 240 $ 156 $ $ 278 (a)Credit Facility Exelon, along with ComEd, PECO and Generation, maintain a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility to support commercial paper issuances. At December 31, 2002, there were no borrowings against the credit facility. Generation does not have a sublimit under the facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, Generation did not have any commercial paper outstanding. (b)Letters of Credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (c)Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt) Direct pay letters of credit issued in connection with variable rate debt in order to provide liquidity in the event that it is not possible to remarket all of the debt as required following specific events, including changes in the basis of determining the interest rate on the debt. (d)Performance Guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (e)Surety Bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial surety bonds, excluding bid bonds. (f)Energy Marketing Contract Guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g)Nuclear Insurance Guarantee Guarantees of nuclear insurance required under the Price Anderson Act. This amount relates to Generations guarantee of AmerGens plants. Exelon has a $1.2 billion guarantee relating to Generations directly owned plants that is not included in this amount. 120 (h)Sithe New England Equity Guarantee See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the $38 million guarantee. After construction of the SBG facilities is complete, Generation could be required to guarantee up to an additional $42 million in order to ensure that the SBG facilities have adequate funds available for potential outage and other operating costs and requirements. Sithe Boston Generation Project Debt. In November 2002, Generation purchased the assets of Sithe New England. Sithe Boston Generating, LLC (SBG), a project subsidiary of Sithe New England has a $1.25 billion credit facility (SBG Facility), most of which is available to finance the construction projects of SBG. The outstanding balance of this facility at December 31, 2002 was $1.0 billion. The SBG Facility provides that if these construction projects are not completed by June 12, 2003, the SBG Facility lenders will have the right, but will not be required, to, among other things, declare all amounts then outstanding under the SBG Facility and the interest rate swap agreements to be due. Generation believes that the construction projects will be substantially complete by June 12, 2003, but that all of the approvals required under the SBG Facility may not be issued by that date. Generation is currently evaluating whether the requirements of the SBG Facility relating to the construction projects can be satisfied by June 12, 2003. In the event that the requirements are not expected to be satisfied by June 12, 2003, Generation will contact the SBG Facility lenders concerning an amendment or waiver of these provisions of the SBG Facility. Generation currently expects that arrangements for such an amendment or waiver, if necessary, can be successfully negotiated with the SBG Facility lenders. Unconsolidated Equity Investments. Generation is a 49.9% owner of Sithe and accounts for the investment as an unconsolidated equity investment. The Sithe New England asset purchase did not affect the accounting for Sithe as an equity investment. Separate from the Sithe New England transaction, Generation is subject to a PCA that gives Generation the right to Call the remaining 50.1% of Sithe, and gives the other Sithe shareholders the right to Put their interest to Generation. At the time of the purchase of Sithe in 2000, the other remaining interests in Sithe were held by Vivendi (34.2%), Marubeni (14.9%) and Sithe management (1%). If the Put option is exercised, Generation has the obligation to complete the purchase. At the end of this exercise period, which is December 2005, if Generation has not exercised its Call option and the other stockholders have not exercised their Put rights, Generation will have an additional one time option to purchase shares from the other stockholders to bring Generations ownership in Sithe from the current 49.9% to 50.1% of Sithes total outstanding common stock. The PCA originally provided that the Put and Call options became exercisable as of December 18, 2002 and expired in December 2005. However, upon Apollo Energy, LLCs (Apollo) purchase of Vivendis and Sithe managements ownership shares, Apollo agreed to delay the effective date of its Put right until June 1, 2003 and, if certain conditions are met, until September 1, 2003. There are also certain events that could trigger Apollos Put right becoming effective prior to June 1, 2003 including Exelon being downgraded below investment grade by Standard and Poors Rating Group or Moodys Investors Service, Inc., a stock purchase agreement between Generation and Apollo being executed and subsequently terminated, or the occurrence of any event of default, other than a change of control, under certain Generation or Apollo credit agreements. Depending on the triggering event, the Put price of approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest, needs to be funded within 18 or 30 days of the Put being exercised. There have been no changes to the Put and Call terms with respect to Marubenis remaining interest. The delay in the effective date of Apollos Put right allows Generation to explore a further restructuring of its investment in Sithe. Generation is continuing discussions with Apollo and Marubeni regarding restructuring alternatives that are designed in part to resolve its ownership limitations of Sithes qualifying facilities. In addition, Generation is exploring the sale of its interest in Sithe. In the event of a sale, Generation may recognize a one time loss. Generation would hope to implement any 121 additional restructuring or a sale of its Sithe investment in 2003. If Generation is unsuccessful in restructuring the Sithe transaction or selling its interest and, as a result, purchases the remaining 50.1% of Sithe under the PCA, Generation will proceed to implement measures to address the ownership of the qualified facilities as well as divest non strategic assets, for which the outcome is uncertain. If Generation exercises its option to acquire the remaining outstanding common stock in Sithe, or if all the other stockholders exercise their Put Rights, the purchase price for Apollos 35.2% interest will be approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest. The additional 14.9% interest will be valued at fair market value subject to a floor of $141 million and a ceiling of $290 million. If Generation increases its ownership in Sithe to 50.1% or more, Sithe may become a consolidated subsidiary and Generations financial results may include Sithes financial results from the date of purchase. At December 31, 2002, Sithe had total assets of $2.6 billion and total debt of $1.3 billion. This $1.3 billion includes $624 million of subsidiary debt incurred primarily to finance the construction of six new generating facilities, $461 million of subordinated debt, $103 million of line of credit borrowings, $43 million of current portion of long term debt and capital leases, $30 million of capital leases, and excludes $453 million of non recourse project debt associated with Sithes equity investments. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Sithe had revenues of $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2002, Generation had a $478 million equity investment in Sithe. Additionally, the debt on the books of Generations unconsolidated equity investments and joint ventures is not reflected on Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets. Generation estimates that this debt, including Sithes debt described in the preceding paragraph, totals approximately $1.3 billion and that Generations portion of that amount, based on its ownership interest in the investments, is approximately $673 million. Generations equity investment in AmerGen was $160 million and $95 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Generation and British Energy, Generations joint venture partner in AmerGen, have each agreed to provide up to $100 million to AmerGen at any time that the Management Committee of AmerGen determines that, in order to protect the public health and safety and or to comply with NRC requirements, these funds are necessary to meet ongoing operating expenses or to safely maintain any AmerGen plant. The current financial condition of British Energy has been the focus of media attention recently. Generation cannot predict the ability of British Energy to provide funds to AmerGen. However, Generation does not believe this will impact AmerGens ability to conduct its business. Other Generations cash flow hedges are impacted by commodity prices. These hedge contracts primarily represent forward sales of Generations excess capacity that it expects to deliver. The majority of these contracts are for delivery within one year. These contracts have specified credit limits pursuant to standardized contract terms and require that cash collateral be posted when the limits are exceeded. When power prices increase relative to Generations forward sales prices, it can be subject to collateral calls if Generation exceeds its credit limits. However, when power prices return to previous levels or when Generation delivers the power under its forward contracts, the collateral would be returned to Generation with no impact on its results of operations. Generation believes that it has sufficient capability to fund any collateral requirements that could be reasonably expected to occur 122  The NRC regulates the sufficiency of Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for the retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) with scheduled contributions and earnings of the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2002, Generation has a number of units, which, due to current market conditions, are being funded at a rate less than anticipated with respect to the NRCs Funding Levels. Generations calculations indicate that over time Generation may need to adjust its funding levels by up to $190 million, or less than 5% of the total. Generation will submit its biennial report to the NRC at the end of March 2003. At that time, Generation will address potential actions, in accordance with NRC requirements, to assure that Generation will remain adequately funded compared to the NRC Funding Levels. Taking into account anticipated license extensions, long term earnings of fund investments and other factors, Generation still believes that scheduled regulated collections from ComEd and PECO customers will provide adequate funding to decommission its nuclear facilities in accordance with regulatory requirements in spite of any temporary shortfall in NRC Funding Levels. Critical Accounting Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Estimates above for a discussion of Generations Critical Accounting Estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business Generation faces a number of challenges in achieving its vision and keeping its commitments to its customers and investors; however, there are two principal areas where Generation focuses its attention. First, Generations financial performance is significantly affected by the availability and utilization of its generation facilities. As the largest U.S. nuclear generator, Generation faces operational and regulatory risks that, if not managed diligently, could have significant adverse consequences. Second, Generations results of operations are directly affected by wholesale energy prices. Energy prices are driven by demand factors such as weather and economic conditions in Generations service territories. They are also driven by supply factors in the regions where Generation operates currently have excess capacity. Over the last several years, wholesale prices of electricity have generally been low. The possibility of continued low wholesale prices, coupled with a continued economic recessionary trend, could adversely affect Generations business. These and other challenges that will affect how Generation manages its business are described below. Generation operates a fleet of generating assets and markets the output of a portfolio of supply, which includes 100% owned assets, co owned facilities and purchased power. As discussed previously, Generation has entered into long term PPAs with ComEd and PECO. The majority of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under these agreements. To the extent the portfolio is not needed to supply power to ComEd or PECO, its output is sold on the wholesale market. Generations ability to grow is dependent upon its ability to cost effectively meet ComEds and PECOs load requirements, to manage its power portfolio and to effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial performance may be affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. The ownership and operation of nuclear facilities involve certain risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; the impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human error; the costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear material; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning 123 nuclear facilities at the end of their useful lives. The following are among the more significant of these risks: Operational risk. Operations at any nuclear generation plant could degrade to the point where Generation would have to shut down the plant. If this were to happen, the process of identifying and correcting the causes of the operational downgrade to return the plant to operation could require significant time and expense, resulting in both lost revenue and increased purchased power and fuel expense to meet its supply commitments. For plants operated by Generation but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation could incur liabilities to the co owners. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur substantial costs to restart the plant. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and may include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident could exceed Generations insurance coverages and significantly affect its results of operations or financial position. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. Nuclear regulation. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under it or the terms of the licenses of nuclear facilities. Changes in regulations by the NRC that require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or that result in increased operating or decommissioning costs could adversely affect Generations results of operations or financial condition. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may initiate such actions. Additional security requirements could also be imposed. Plant life extensions. In 2001, Generation extended the estimated lives of certain nuclear stations. This change in estimate reflects the current and planned applications to the NRC to renew the operating licenses of Generations nuclear stations. These applications for renewal, if approved by the NRC, will allow Generation to operate these plants for an additional 20 years longer than originally authorized. Nuclear station service life extensions are subject to NRC approval of an extension of existing NRC operating licenses, which are generally 20 years. Generation continues to fully believe that any such applications for renewal of operating licenses will be approved. However, if the NRC does not extend the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. Generations financial performance is affected in large measure by the availability and use of its nuclear generation capacity. Nuclear capacity factors. Generation capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect its results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs, but produce electricity at low marginal costs due to low variable fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear generating facilities at high capacity factors. Generations nuclear fleet performed at a 92.7% capacity factor (which represents the percentage of the total maximum energy that could be produced if facilities were operating full time year round) in 2002 and is targeted to operate at a 94.2% capacity factor in 2003. In calculating capacity factors, Generations nuclear fleet includes the AmerGen plants and excludes the Salem generation facility, which is operated by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSE&G). Lower capacity factors would increase its operating costs and could require Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy its obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources 124 generally are at a higher cost than Generation otherwise would have incurred to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Refueling outage scheduling at nuclear plants affects availability and costs. Outages at nuclear stations to replenish fuel require the station to be "turned off." Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 22 days in duration. Generation has significantly decreased the length of refueling outages in recent years. However, when refueling outages last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each twenty day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.1% and 0.4%. The number of refueling outages, including AmerGen, will decrease to eight in 2003 from eleven in 2002. Maintenance and capital expenditures are expected to decrease by approximately $45 million and $10 million, respectively, in 2003 as compared to 2002 as a result of fewer nuclear refueling outages. Nuclear fuel quality may affect costs. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of its operations. Certain Generation nuclear units have recently identified to have a limited number of fuel performance issues. While actions have been taken in accordance with Generations policies and procedures to ensure there are no public, personnel or operational issues, evaluation continues and further actions are under consideration. These actions, such as down powers, mid cycle outages, and or accelerated replacement of suspect fuel assemblies, will result in increased costs in 2003. In March 2003, a decision was made to replace suspect fuel assemblies at the Quad Cities Unit 1 facility. The 2003 impact from this decision is estimated to be approximately $20 million, before income taxes. Generation continues to evaluate other units that utilize similar fuel assemblies, but there currently are no plans to replace this fuel on an accelerated basis. Generation is directly affected by wholesale energy prices. Generation sells energy in the wholesale markets after meeting its contractual commitments to Energy Delivery and other parties. These sales expose Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and cash flows may vary accordingly. The amount of generation capacity that is exposed to the volatility of market prices depends inversely on the level of demand at ComEd and PECO. The wholesale prices of electricity have generally been lower than historical levels over the last few years. A continued trend of low wholesale electricity prices could negatively affect Generations results of operations. Factors that affect wholesale energy prices include the overall demand for energy, fossil fuel costs and excess capacity within the industry. Demand for energy. An increased demand for energy will normally cause energy prices to increase; however, if this increase in demand drives an incremental increase in supply, energy prices may be less affected. The demand for energy is directly affected by weather conditions and economic conditions in Generations service territories. Weather conditions. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation manages its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements to ComEd and PECO. Extreme summer conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse affect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generation does incorporate contingencies into its planning for 125 extreme weather conditions, including reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Economic conditions. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds and PECOs service territories directly affect the demand for electricity and gas. Changes in economic conditions and activity in ComEds and PECOs service territories and in other parts of the United States can affect the level of operations required in the generating facilities as well as the prevailing prices of electricity and gas in the wholesale markets in which Generation does business. Fossil fuel costs. At any given time, the open market wholesale price of electricity is affected by the cost of supplying one more unit of electricity to the market at that time. Many times the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of gas plus the spark spread, the cost to convert gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the cost of gas may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. Excess capacity. In addition to being affected by demand factors such as weather, the economy, and fossil fuel costs, energy prices are also impacted by the amount of supply available in a region. In the markets where Generation sells power, there has been a significant increase in the number of new power plants coming on line which has driven down power prices over the last few years. An "excess supply" problem currently exists in many parts of the country. A key factor for Generations future earnings is the timing of a return to more normal levels in the supply demand balance within the regions where Generation operates. The scope and scale of Generations nuclear generation resources provide a cost advantage in meeting its contractual commitments and enable Generation to sell power in the wholesale markets. The generation assets transferred to Generation by ComEd and PECO during the 2001 corporate restructuring, the generating plants acquired in 2002 and Generations investments in Sithe and AmerGen provide a critical mass of generation capacity and a leadership position in energy wholesale markets. Generations resources, including AmerGen, include interest in 11 nuclear generation stations, consisting of 19 units, which generated 125,916 GWhs, or more than half of Generations total supply in 2002. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can take advantage of its scale and scope to negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services required. Generations nuclear plants benefit from stable fuel costs, minimal environmental impact from operations, and a safe operating history. Generations financial performance will be affected by its ability to effectively operate and integrate the assets of Sithe New England into its business and to market the output. In November 2002, Generation acquired the generating assets of Sithe New England, which includes 2,421 MWs of gas fired combined facilities under construction and several operating generating facilities, which together with the assets under construction total 4,066 MWs of capacity. The facilities under construction (Mystic 8, Mystic 9, and Fore River) are currently in the final stages of construction and testing. Generation anticipates commercial operation dates during the second quarter of 2003. These projects have experienced delays in construction and any further delays could adversely affect Generations results. See further discussion of the Sithe Boston Generation Project Debt in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation. With the continued low wholesale energy prices, Generation anticipates that the effects of its Sithe investment and the Sithe New England acquisition will be dilutive to earnings by approximately $125 million before income taxes in 2003. 126 Power Team has not fully committed the output from these facilities into the New England markets. As such, the uncommitted capacity of the Sithe New England assets is subject to the fluctuations in market demand and market prices. Substantially all of the natural gas requirements for Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 will be supplied through a twenty year natural gas contract that became effective on December 1, 2002 with Distrigas. The Distrigas facilities consist of a LNG import terminal located adjacent to the Mystic station. Generation is anticipating an additional pipeline gas supply arrangement to supplement LNG supplies to be in service by early 2005. In the interim, any disruption in LNG supplies to the Distrigas facilities could restrict the operating abilities of Mystic 8 and Mystic 9. The interaction between ComEd and PECOs businesses and Generations businesses provide a partial hedge. The price of power purchased and sold in the open wholesale energy markets can vary significantly in response to market conditions. Both ComEd and PECO have entered into long term agreements for the next several years with Generation to procure the power at fixed rates needed to meet the demand of their customers. The amounts provided to affiliates vary from month to month; however, delivery requirements are generally highest in the summer when wholesale power prices are also generally highest. Therefore, energy committed to serve ComEd and PECO customers is not exposed to the price uncertainty of the open wholesale energy market. Consequently, Generation has limited its earnings exposure to the volatility of the wholesale energy market to the energy generated beyond the ComEd and PECO requirements, as well as any other contracted longer term obligations. Generally, between 60% and 70% of Generations electricity generated serves ComEd and PECO customers. Generation expects such levels to decrease to between 55% and 60% as a result of activating the acquired Sithe New England plants, which are currently under construction. One of the responsibilities of Power Team is to establish a hedging strategy, incorporating the load obligations of ComEd and PECO, to minimize the contracted volatility of Generations earnings and cash flows, and to maximize the value of economic generation in excess of that needed to serve ComEd and PECO requirements. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. In recent years, IPPs and the generation companies of disaggregated utilities have installed new generating capacity at a pace greater than the growth of electricity demand. As a result, the energy generation business is currently suffering from over capacity in certain parts of the country, which reduces wholesale energy prices. As discussed above, Generation is well positioned because it has entered into agreements for the next several years with ComEd and PECO to sell the power needed to meet the demand of their customers. These agreements provide a mechanism to enhance stability in Generations earnings and limit its exposure to the negative effects of wholesale markets. The commencement of commercial operation of new generating facilities in the regional markets where Generation has facilities or contracts for power, such as the Midwest, Mid Atlantic, Northeast and South (including certain sections of Texas), would likely decrease wholesale power market prices in those regions, which could have a negative effect on Generations business and results of operations. Generations financial performance may be affected by the marketing, trading and risk management activities of Power Team. Generations wholesale marketing unit, Power Team, 127 uses Generations energy generation portfolio, transmission rights and its power marketing expertise to manage delivery of energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO, under long term and short term contracts, participates in the wholesale energy market to hedge its open energy (power and fossil fuels) positions, manages commodity and counterparty credit risks through the use of documented risk and credit policies, and uses its energy market expertise to engage in trading activities for speculative purposes on a limited basis. Power Team has substantial experience in energy markets, generation dispatch and the requirements for the physical delivery of power. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with Generations capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale energy market. Power Team began proprietary trading activities in 2001, but this activity accounts for a small portion of Power Teams efforts. In 2002, proprietary trading activities resulted in an $18 million after tax reduction in earnings. Power Team will continue proprietary trading activities but in a more limited capacity given the current lack of liquidity of power markets and reduced number of creditworthy counterparties. Power Team has managed to avoid the recent managerial problems experienced in the energy trading industry through the strict adherence to prudent risk management practices. However, the recent failures of energy companies and their related energy trading practices over the last year have diminished the size and depth of the wholesale energy market. Generation cannot predict how this will affect Power Teams trading operations in the future. Generation depends on counterparties fulfilling their obligations. Generations trading, marketing and contracting operations are exposed to the risk that counterparties, which owe Generation money or energy as a result of market transactions, will not perform their obligations. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. Energy supplied by third party generators, including AmerGen and Sithe, under long term agreements represents a significant portion of Generations overall capacity. These third party generators face operational risks such as those that Generation faces, and their ability to perform also depends on their financial condition. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to honor the underlying commitment at then current market prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties. These agreements reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 128 See the Credit Risk section in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Generation for further discussions on specific credit risk matters such as Generations potential counterparty exposures, including Dynegy Inc. (Dynegy). Generations business is also affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations/Standard Market Design. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which it delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that it does not need to satisfy long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources, and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale spot markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features that may create trading barriers between the markets. Although FERC has proposed initiatives, including Order 2000 and the proposed SMD rule, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers, these initiatives have not yet led to the development of such markets all across the country. PJMs market strongly resembles FERCs proposal, and both the New England Independent System Operator (NE ISO) and the New York Independent System operator (NYISO) are implementing market reforms. Generation strongly encourages the development of standardized energy markets and support FERCs standardization efforts as being essential to wholesale competition in the energy industry and to Generations ability to compete on a national basis and to meet its long term contractual commitments efficiently. Approximately 26% of Generations current generation resources are located in the region encompassed by PJM. If the PJM market is expanded to the Midwest, 82% of Generations current assets will be located within the expanded market. The PJM market has been the most liquid regional market and is largely consistent with the standard market design proposed by FERC. Generations future results of operations may be impacted by the successful expansion of that market to the Midwest and the implementation of any market changes mandated by FERC. Provider of Last Resort. As noted, ComEd and PECO have a POLR obligation that they have largely assigned to Generation through the full requirements contracts that it has with Generation. Currently both ComEd and PECO have entered into PPAs with Generation to provide 100% of their respective energy requirements. ComEds PPA with Generation is for 100% of its required load through 2004 at fixed prices, and in 2005 and 2006 it equals 100% of the output of ComEds former nuclear plants, now owned by Generation at market based prices. PECOs PPA with Generation is a full load requirements contract through 2010. Exelon intends to revise the PPA between ComEd and Generation to be a full requirements contract in 2005 and 2006. Additionally, the PPAs between Generation, ComEd and PECO may be extended beyond their current expiration dates. ComEd and PECO continue to work on resolution of the POLR issues with their respective state regulatory commissions and other market participants. Effective management of capital projects is important to Generations business. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. As mentioned previously, as part of Generations recent acquisition of the assets of Sithe New England, Generation is in the process of completing the construction of three high efficiency generating facilities with projected capacity of 2,421 MWs of energy. The inability to effectively manage the capital projects, such as the Sithe New England facilities, could adversely affect Generations results from operations. 129 Capital Markets/Financing Environment In order to expand Generations operations and to meet the needs of its current and future customers, Generation invests in its businesses. Generations ability to finance its business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of its operations and its current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect its decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets. Further discussions of Generations liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. Generations ability to grow its business is affected by its ability to finance capital projects. Generations businesses require considerable capital resources. When necessary, Generation secures funds, through Exelon, from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. Generation actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Generation currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper (issued through Exelon) to fund its operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. Generations ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see Generations Credit Ratings above in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources), investor confidence in Generation and Exelon, investor confidence in regional wholesale power markets, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. Generations credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. Generation has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Also, from time to time, Generation enters into energy commodity and other contracts that require the maintenance of investment grade ratings. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require Generation to incur higher financing costs and would allow, but not in most instances require, counterparties to energy commodity contracts to terminate the contracts and settle the transaction. Also, the failure to maintain investment grade ratings would restrict Generations access to the wholesale energy markets. Equity market performance affects Generations decommissioning trust funds and Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans and the eventual nuclear generation station decommissioning requirements. If the markets continue to decline, Exelon may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trusts in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with Exelons overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. See ITEM 7. ComEd, PECO, 130 Gneration Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets. Other Generation may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. Generations businesses are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which Generation conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. These regulations affect how Generation handles air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of Generations operations. In addition, Generation is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by ComEd or PECO and of property contaminated by hazardous substances generated. Generation believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, Generation has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Generation is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, Generations reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $15 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. Generation has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but Generation cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover its environmental liabilities. Generation cannot predict whether it will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by Generation, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. Generations financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. Generation does not fully know the impact that future terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism may have on its industry in general and on itself in particular. The events of September 11, 2001 have affected Generations operating procedures and costs. Generation has initiated security measures to safeguard its employees and critical operations and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of its energy production and delivery systems. Generation has met or exceeded all security measures mandated by the NRC for nuclear plants after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. These security measures resulted in increased costs in 2002 of $19 million, of which approximately $10 million was capitalized. On a continuing basis, Generation is evaluating enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assessing long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expense to develop and implement, but will provide increased assurances as to Generations ability to continue to operate under difficult times. Nuclear liability insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The current limit is $9.5 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries nuclear liability insurance in the maximum available amount (currently $300 million per site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. The Price Anderson Act expired on August 1, 131 2002, but existing facilities, such as those owned and operated by Generation, remain covered. The provisions of the Price Anderson Act related to commercial facilities have been extended through 2003. The extension affects facilities obtaining NRC operating licenses in 2003. Existing facilities are unaffected by the extension. Other insurance. In addition to nuclear liability insurance, Generation also carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under Generations property damage and liability insurance would negatively affect its results of operations. NEIL, a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for its nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2002 was $40 million, which was recorded as a reduction to O&M expense on its Consolidated Statements of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect Generations results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect Generations operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil and LNG. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect Generations operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Generations revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect Generations ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within Generations markets. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse affect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information appearing under the subheading "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" under "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. 132 ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with credit, interest rates and commodity price. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, and interest rates. Exelons corporate Risk Management Committee (RMC) sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives for Exelon and its subsidiaries through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the board of directors on the scope of ComEds derivative activities. Credit Risk ComEd is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territories and the resulting broad customer base mitigates ComEds credit risk exposure. For the year ended December 31, 2002, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3% of its retail electric revenues. ComEd manages credit risk using credit and collection policies which are regulated by the ICC. Interest Rate Risk ComEd uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. ComEd also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. These strategies are employed to maintain the lowest cost of capital. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $1 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2003. ComEd has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps in order to maintain its targeted percentage of variable rate debt, associated with debt issuances in the aggregate amount of $485 million fixed rate obligation. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $41 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2002. ComEd has forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate amount of $630 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, had a fair market value exposure of $52 million. As it remained probable that the debt issuances, the forecasted future transactions these swaps were hedging, would occur, although the issuances had been delayed, ComEd continued to account for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. In connection with ComEds January 22, 2003 issuance of $700 million in First Mortgage Bonds, ComEd settled swaps, in the aggregate notional amount of $550 million, for a payment of $43 million, which will be recorded as a regulatory asset and amortized over the life of the debt issuance. In 2002, ComEd settled $450 million of forward starting interest rate swaps and paid $10 million to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $49 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is 133 estimated to be $33 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2001, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $69 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by ComEd to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $36 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by ComEd to the counterparties. Commodity Price Risk As part of the 2001 corporate restructuring, ComEd entered into a PPA with Generation to meet its retail customer obligations at fixed prices. ComEds principal exposure to commodity price risk is in relation to revenues collected from customers who elect the PPO at market based prices, and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. ComEd has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the net impact of a 10% decrease in the average around the clock market price of electricity. Because the decrease in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by increased CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in counterparty credit and interest rates. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the board of directors on the scope of Exelons derivative activities. As a result of the PPA with Generation, PECO does not believe it is subject to material commodity price risk. Credit Risk Credit risk for PECO is managed by its credit and collection policies, which is consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised service territories. As a result, PECO has a broad customer base. For the year ended December 31, 2002, PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 8% of its retail electric revenues. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric generating suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering. However, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. 134 Interest Rate Risk PECO uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. PECO also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would not have a material impact on pre tax earnings for 2003. During 2002, PECO entered into forward starting interest rate swaps, with an aggregate notional amount of $200 million, in anticipation of the issuance of debt at PECO. These interest rate swaps were designated as cash flow hedges. In connection with bond issuances in 2002, PECO settled these forward starting interest rate swaps resulting in a $5 million pre tax loss recorded in OCI, which is being amortized over the life of the related debt. PECO has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure associated with the floating rate series of transition bonds issued to securitize PECOs stranded cost recovery. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value exposure of $22 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2002. PECO also has interest rate swaps in place to satisfy counterparty credit requirements in regards to the floating rate series of transition bonds which are mirror swaps of each other. These swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges; therefore, they are required to be marked to market if there is a difference in their values. Since these swaps offset each other, a mark to market adjustment is not expected to occur. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $23 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by PECO to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $20 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by PECO to the counterparties. Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity prices. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity security prices. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the Exelon business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of Generations derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk Commodity price risk is associated with market price movements resulting from excess or insufficient generation, changes in fuel costs, market liquidity and other factors. Trading activities and non trading marketing activities include the purchase and sale of electric capacity and energy and fossil 135 fuels, including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. The availability and prices of energy and energy related commodities are subject to fluctuations due to factors such as weather, governmental environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and Federal regulatory policies and other events. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of its obligations to customers, including Energy Deliverys retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge its anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is 4 years. Generation has an estimated 90% hedge ratio in 2003 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of Generations forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEd and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, and energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods the amount hedged declines to meet the commitment to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any opportunistic efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity is an approximately $37 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes a 90% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio and represent a very small portion of its overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than 1% of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. The trading portfolio is subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Most non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133 discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates. Those that do not are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 and the ineffective portion of hedge contracts are recognized in earnings on a current basis. The following detailed presentation of the trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers. Generation does not consider its proprietary trading to be a significant activity in its business; however, Generation believes it is important to include these risk management disclosures. 136  The following table describes the drivers of Generations energy trading and marketing business and gross margin included in the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2002. Normal operations and hedging activities represent the marketing of electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation, including ComEd and PECOs retail load, sold into the wholesale market. As the information in this table highlights, mark to market activities represent a small portion of the overall gross margin for Generation. Accrual activities, including normal purchases and sales, account for the majority of the gross margin. The mark to market activities reported here are those relating to changes in fair value due to external movement in prices. Further delineation of gross margin by the type of accounting treatment typically afforded each type of activity is also presented (i.e., mark to market vs. accrual accounting treatment). Normal Operations and Hedging Activities(a) Proprietary Trading Total Mark to Market Activities: Unrealized Mark to Market Gain/(Loss) Origination Unrealized Gain/(Loss) at Inception $ $ $ Changes in Fair Value Prior to Settlements 26 (29 ) (3 ) Changes in Valuation Techniques and Assumptions Reclassification to Realized at Settlement of Contracts (20 ) 20 Total Change in Unrealized Fair Value 6 (9 ) (3 ) Realized Net Settlement of Transactions Subject to Mark to Market 20 (20 ) Total Mark to Market Activities Gross Margin $ 26 $ (29 ) $ (3 ) Accrual Activities: Accrual Activities Revenue $ 6,785 $ $ 6,785 Hedge Gains/(Losses) Reclassified from OCI 76 76 Total Revenue Accrual Activities 6,861 6,861 Purchased Power and Fuel 4,230 4,230 Hedges of Purchased Power and Fuel Reclassified from OCI 23 23 Total Purchased Power and Fuel 4,253 4,253 Total Accrual Activities Gross Margin 2,608 2,608 Total Gross Margin $ 2,634 $ (29 ) $ 2,605 (b) (a)Normal Operations and Hedging Activities only include derivative contracts Power Team enters into to hedge anticipated exposures related to its owned and contracted generation supply, but excludes its owned and contracted generating assets. (b)Total Gross Margin represents revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense for Generation. The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2002. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table will incorporate the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as shown in the previous table, as well as the settlements from OCI 137 to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets at January 1, 2002 $ 78 $ 14 $ 92 Total Change in Fair Value during 2002 of Contracts Recorded in Earnings 26 (29 ) (3 ) Reclassification to Realized at Settlement of Contracts Recorded in Earnings (20 ) 20 Reclassification to Realized at Settlement from OCI (53 ) (53 ) Effective Portion of Changes in Fair Value Recorded in OCI (210 ) (210 ) Purchase/Sale of Existing Contracts or Portfolios Subject to Mark to Market 11 11 Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) at December 31, 2002 $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The following table details the balance sheet classification of the Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets recorded as of December 31, 2002: Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Current Assets $ 186 $ 6 $ 192 Noncurrent Assets 46 46 Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Assets 232 6 238 Current Liabilities (276 ) (276 ) Noncurrent Liabilities (124 ) (1 ) (125 ) Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Liabilities (400 ) (1 ) (401 ) Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask midpoint prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, by region and by product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2002 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or 138 liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and generate or require cash. Maturities within 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 and Beyond Total Fair Value Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts(1): Prices provided by other external sources $ (124 ) $ (48 ) $ (9 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ (186 ) Total $ (124 ) $ (48 ) $ (9 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ (186 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts(2): Actively quoted prices $ 26 $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 30 Prices provided by other external sources 3 2 2 7 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 7 (11 ) (4 ) (9 ) (2 ) (19 ) Total $ 33 $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ (7 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 18 Proprietary Trading, other derivative contracts(3): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by other external sources 6 (3 ) 3 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 5 1 6 Total $ 7 $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ $ 5 Average tenor of proprietary trading portfolio(4) 1.5 years (1)Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (2)Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. (3)Mark to market gains and losses on trading contracts are recorded in earnings. (4)Following the recommendations of the Committee of Chief Risk Officers, the average tenor of the proprietary trading portfolio measures the average time to collect value for that portfolio. Generation measures the tenor by separating positive and negative mark to market values in its proprietary trading portfolio, estimating the mid point in years for each and then reporting the highest of the two mid points calculated. In the event that this methodology resulted in significantly different absolute values of the positive and negative cash flow streams, Generation would use the mid point of the portfolio with the largest cash flow stream as the tenor. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2002. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place, however, given that under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to cash flow hedges for the year ended December 31, 2002, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and 139 changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge Other Comprehensive Income Activity, Net of Income Tax Power Team Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate and Other Hedges(1) Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI, January 1, 2002 $ 47 $ 1 $ 48 Changes in Fair Value (128 ) (9 ) (137 ) Reclassifications from OCI to Net Income (33 ) (33 ) Accumulated OCI Derivative Gain/(Loss) at December 31, 2002 $ (114 ) $ (8 ) $ (122 ) (1)Includes interest rate hedges at Generation. Generation uses a Value at Risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk associated with financial derivative instruments entered into for proprietary trading purposes. The measured VaR represents an estimate of the potential change in value of Generations proprietary trading portfolio. The VaR estimate includes a number of assumptions about current market prices, estimates of volatility and correlations between market factors. These estimates, however, are not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may differ because actual market rate fluctuations may differ from forecasted fluctuations and because the portfolio may change over the holding period. Generation estimates VaR using a model based on the Monte Carlo simulation of commodity prices that captures the change in value of forward purchases and sales as well as option values. Parameters and values are back tested daily against daily changes in mark to market value for proprietary trading activity. VaR assumes that normal market conditions prevail and that there are no changes in positions. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. This means that Generation may state that there is a one in 20 chance that if prices move against its portfolio positions, its pre tax loss in liquidating its portfolio in a one day holding period would exceed the calculated VaR. To account for unusual events and loss of liquidity, Generation uses stress tests and scenario analysis. For financial reporting purposes only, Generation calculates several other VaR estimates. The higher the confidence interval, the less likely the chance that the VaR estimate would be exceeded. A longer holding period considers the effect of liquidity in being able to actually liquidate the portfolio. A two tailed test considers potential upside in the portfolio in addition to the potential downside in the 140 portfolio considered in the one tailed test. The following table provides the VaR for all proprietary trading positions of Generation as of December 31, 2002. Proprietary Trading VaR 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, One Tailed Period End $ 0.2 Average for the Period 1.4 High 5.0 Low 0.2 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period, Two Tailed Period End $ 0.3 Average for the Period 1.5 High 5.3 Low 0.1 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, Two Tailed Period End $ 0.9 Average for the Period 4.6 High 16.7 Low 0.4 Credit Risk Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The following table provides information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2002. Credit exposure, in the below table, is defined as net accounts receivable as well as any net in the money forward mark to market exposure. Exposures are shown net, if such agreements with counterparties are in place. It further delineates that exposure by the credit rating of the counterparties and provides guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The 141 figures in the table below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through Independent System Operators (ISOs) which are discussed below. Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number Of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure Of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Investment Grade $ 156 $ $ 156 2 $ 71 Split Rating Non Investment Grade 17 11 6 No External Ratings Internally Rated Investment Grade 27 4 23 4 16 Internally Rated Non Investment Grade 4 2 2 Total $ 204 $ 17 $ 187 6 $ 87 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating Less than 2 Years 2 5 Years Exposure Greater than 5 Years Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Investment Grade $ 117 $ 39 $ $ 156 Split Rating Non Investment Grade 17 17 No External Ratings Internally Rated Investment Grade 27 27 Internally Rated Non Investment Grade 4 4 Total $ 165 $ 39 $ $ 204 Generation is a counterparty to Dynegy in various energy transactions. In early July 2002, the credit ratings of Dynegy were downgraded to below investment grade by two credit rating agencies. As of December 31, 2002, Generation had a net receivable from Dynegy of approximately $3 million and, consistent with the terms of the existing credit arrangement, has received collateral in support of this receivable. Generation also has credit risk associated with Dynegy through Generations equity investment in Sithe. Sithe is a 60% owner of the Independence generating station (Independence), a 1,040 MW gas fired qualified facility that has an energy only long term tolling agreement with Dynegy, with a related financial swap arrangement. As of December 31, 2002, Sithe had recognized an asset on its balance sheet related to the fair market value of the financial swap agreement with Dynegy that is marked to market under the terms of SFAS No. 133. If Dynegy is unable to fulfill the terms of this agreement, Sithe would be required to impair this financial swap asset. Generation estimates, as a 49.9% owner of Sithe, that the impairment would result in an after tax reduction of its earnings of approximately $10 million. In addition to the impairment of the financial swap asset, if Dynegy were unable to fulfill its obligations under the financial swap agreement and the tolling agreement, Generation would likely incur a further impairment associated with Independence. Depending upon the timing of Dynegys failure to fulfill its obligations and the outcome of any restructuring initiatives, Generation could realize an after tax charge of between $0 and $130 million. In the event of a sale of Generations investment in Sithe to a third party, proceeds from the sale could be negatively impacted between $65 million and $100 million (after tax). Additionally, the future economic value of AmerGens PPA with Illinois Power Company, a subsidiary of Dynegy, could be impacted by events related to Dynegys financial condition. 142 Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets, which are administered by ISOs: PJM, New England ISO, New York ISO, California ISO, Midwest ISO, Inc., Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and Texas, which is administered by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and in certain of these areas power is traded on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Generation uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Generation also uses interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $4 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2003. Under the terms of the Sithe Boston Generation, LLC (SBG) credit facility, SBG is required to effectively fix the interest rate on 50% of borrowings under the facility through its maturity in 2007. As of December 31, 2002, Generation has entered into interest rate swap agreements, which have effectively fixed the interest rate on $861 million of notional principal, or 83% of borrowings outstanding under the SBG credit facility at December 31, 2002. The fair market value exposure of these swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, is $92 million. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $108 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $76 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. Equity Price Risk Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning its nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2002, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $172 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits section of ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation Critical Accounting Estimates for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 143 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. ComEd, PECO and Generation Each Critical Accounting Estimate and New Accounting Pronouncement section presented below indicates the registrant or registrants to which each estimate or accounting standard is applicable. "We" or "Our" as utilized in the Critical Accounting Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncements sections is defined as the business units identified in each subheading. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these estimates and assumptions with its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on management decisions. Management believes that the following areas require significant management judgment in making estimates and assumptions to describe matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (ComEd, PECO and Generation) We use derivative financial instruments primarily to manage commodity price and interest rate risks. In connection with our Risk Management Policy (RMP), we: use financial derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations related to our variable rate debt instruments, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances prior to their actual issuance and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt which we are planning to retire early, enter into derivatives to manage the physical and financial risks associated with our energy supply and load obligations, and enter into energy related derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Our derivative activities are subject to the management, direction, and control of our Risk Management Committee (RMC). The RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives, and establishes procedures for control, valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of our activities in derivative markets and the performance of our derivative contracts. We make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the changes in the fair value we expect in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. We account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133. To the extent that changes in SFAS No. 133 modify current guidance, including the standards for determining whether contracts can be accounted for as normal purchases and normal sales, the accounting treatment for derivatives may change. 53 We are required under SFAS No. 133 to record derivative instruments at fair value. Depending on the designation of the derivative, the fair value is either recorded in the income statement or as a component of other comprehensive income in shareholders equity (OCI). We use quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, we use internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific energy market the energy is being purchased in using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. We use the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. To determine the fair value of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements we use external broker quotes or calculate the fair value internally using the Bloomberg swap valuation tool. This tool uses the most recent market inputs and a widely accepted valuation methodology. During 2002, Generation recognized unrealized and realized net gains of $6 million and $20 million, respectively, relating to mark to market adjustments of certain non trading purchased power and sale contracts pursuant to SFAS No. 133 and unrealized and realized net losses aggregating $9 million and $20 million, respectively, relating to mark to market adjustments of derivative instruments entered into for trading purposes. Hedge Accounting. As part of our energy marketing business, we enter into contracts to purchase or sell electricity, gas and ancillary products such as transmission rights, congestion credits and emission allowances, using contracts that are considered derivatives under SFAS No. 133. Certain of these derivatives qualify as hedge transactions. A derivative instrument can be designated as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge) or a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge). To qualify for hedge accounting, the fair value changes in the derivative must be expected to offset 80% 120% of the changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge and is highly effective, along with the gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge and is highly effective, are recorded in OCI, until earnings are affected by the variability of cash flows being hedged. Exelon continually assesses these cash flow hedges to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transaction is probable. At the point in time that the contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and the fair value of the derivative is recorded through earnings. Energy Contracts. We enter into contracts designated as cash flow hedges in which we manage the variability of our cash flows related to the purchase or sale of energy. At the initiation of the contract the contract is identified as a cash flow hedge, which requires us to determine whether the contract is in accordance with our RMP, that the forecasted future transaction is probable, and that the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of an energy contract designated as a hedge. An example of a contract that would qualify for hedge accounting would be a forward over the counter sales contract used to hedge an expected sale of generation exposed to market prices. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. We enter into interest rate swap contracts related to variable rate debt in order to convert the variable interest payments into fixed interest payments to manage the variability of cash flows. Additionally, we enter into forward starting interest rate swaps in order to lock 54 in an interest rate at a future date in anticipation of a future debt issuance to manage the variability of changes in interest rates between the date of the decision to issue and the actual date of issue. We also enter into interest rate swap contracts related to fixed rate debt in order to maintain our targeted percentage of variable rate debt. The fair value of derivatives generally reflects the estimated amounts that we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the balance sheet date, thereby taking into account the current unrealized gains or losses of open contracts. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exemption. As part of our energy marketing business, we enter into contracts to purchase or sell electricity, gas and ancillary products such as transmission rights, congestion credits and emission allowances using contracts that are considered derivatives under SFAS No. 133. The majority of these contracts, however, qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales SFAS No. 133 exemption from mark to market accounting treatment as they are for the purchase and sale of energy to meet the requirements of our customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery in quantities we expect to use or sell over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. These contracts are reflected in the financial statements at the lower of cost or market, on a portfolio basis, using the accrual method of accounting. We did not have any loss contracts as of December 31, 2002. Under these contracts we recognize any gains or losses when the underlying physical transaction affects earnings. At the initiation of the contract, we make a determination as to whether or not the contract meets the criteria as a normal purchase or normal sale. An example of an energy contract that would qualify for the normal sale exemption would include a forward sale contract under which we expect to supply the full requirements of the counterparty. An example of a contract that would qualify for the normal purchase exemption would be an energy capacity contract that we enter into to satisfy the needs of our customer base, either retail or wholesale. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to specific contracts is based on a determination that at certain times excess generation is available for a forward sale and, similarly, a determination that at certain times generation supply will be insufficient to serve our load. The determination of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery is based on internal models that forecast customer demand and electricity supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. Significant changes in these assumptions could result in contracts being considered differently under SFAS No. 133 and the potential requirement of mark to market accounting. Proprietary Trading. As part of our energy trading operation, we enter into contracts to buy and sell energy for trading purposes. These contracts are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value and changes in the fair value are recognized through earnings. All proprietary trading activity is recorded net in revenue. Trading activities are a very small portion of Generations overall power marketing activities. The trading portfolio is subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, including volumetric and depression limits to manage exposure to market risk, as prescribed by the RMC. Non Trading Contracts. To manage our commodity risk exposure and meet our load requirements, we have also entered into non trading contracts that do not meet the definition in SFAS No. 133 of a normal purchase or normal sale or meet the requirements for hedge accounting treatment. These non trading contracts are marked to market when the underlying item affects earnings, with the gains and losses recorded in Purchased Power and Fuel expense. Non trading contracts are subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, as prescribed by the RMC. 55 Although we use derivative instruments to assist in managing commodity price and interest rate risks, we can still experience earnings volatility from period to period because of the risks associated with marketing and trading electricity and other energy related products. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities (ComEd and PECO) Energy Deliverys operating subsidiaries, ComEd and PECO, are regulated by their respective state regulatory commissions as well as by FERC. The regulators in Illinois and Pennsylvania, as well as FERC, use cost based rate structures to determine the rates we charge customers. In establishing cost based rates, the ICC and the PUC may consider the capital requirements and working capital needs to operate the distribution and transmission business, determine the operating cost levels that can be passed on to customers and provide for a reasonable return to our shareholders. In their determination of rates, the ICC and PUC may include allowable costs in periods other than the periods in which an unregulated entity would record the costs in the income statement. These costs are accounted for as either a regulatory asset or liability. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. Regulatory assets and liabilities are accounted for under SFAS No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" (SFAS No. 71). Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to our utility operations that meet the following criteria: the operations are subject to third party regulation of rates; the rates are cost based; and the assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates is appropriate and reasonable. If a separable portion of our business no longer meets these criteria, we are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of our business. Both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Current rates include the recovery of our existing regulatory assets. The most significant regulatory assets we have recorded are: Competitive Transition Charges: These charges represent PECOs stranded costs that the PUC determined would be allowed to be recoverable through regulated rates. These costs are related to the deregulation of the generation portion of the electric utility business in Pennsylvania. The unamortized balance of the CTC of $4.6 billion and $4.9 billion as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, was recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The CTC includes Intangible Transition Property sold to PECO Energy Transition Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of PECO, in connection with the securitization of PECOs stranded cost recovery. CTC is being amortized through December 31, 2010 with a rate of return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. See ITEM 1. Business General Energy Delivery Retail Electric Services PECO for additional discussion of CTC amortization. Recoverable Transition Costs: These charges, related to the recovery of ComEds former generating plants, are amortized based on the expected return on equity of ComEd in any given year. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $175 million and $277 million, respectively, in recoverable transition costs recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. ComEd expects to fully recover and amortize these charges by the end of 2006, but may increase or decrease its annual amortization to maintain its earnings within the earnings cap provisions established by Illinois legislation. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of recoverable transition cost amortization. Recoverable Deferred Income Taxes: These costs represent the difference between the method in which the regulator allows for the recovery of income taxes and how income taxes would be 56 recorded by unregulated entities. These recoverable deferred income taxes, recorded in compliance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," include the deferred tax effects associated principally with liberalized depreciation for PECO and excess deferred taxes and ITC amortization for ComEd. These amounts are accounted for in accordance with the ratemaking policies of the ICC and PUC, as well as the revenue impacts thereon, and assume continued recovery of these costs in future rates. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $(68) million and $26 million, respectively, in recoverable deferred income taxes recorded in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PECO had $729 million and $675 million, respectively, in recoverable deferred income taxes recorded in PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheets. Nuclear Decommissioning Costs for Retired Plants: These costs represent the amount of future nuclear decommissioning costs related to the retired former ComEd plants which are being recovered through rates. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $248 million and $310 million, respectively, in nuclear decommissioning costs for retired plants recorded in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. These costs will be recovered in rates and amortized on a straight line basis to earnings by the end of 2006. Reacquired Debt Costs and Interest Rate Swap Settlements: These costs relate to amounts paid to reacquire debt early and to settle interest rate hedges to mitigate interest rate risks and capitalize on lower interest rate debt. These amounts are deferred and amortized over the rate recovery period, which is over the life of the new debt issued to finance the debt redemption. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, ComEd had $84 million and $54 million, respectively, in reacquired debt costs and interest rate swap settlements recorded in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PECO had $53 million and $58 million, respectively, in reacquired debt costs recorded in PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheets. For each regulatory jurisdiction where we conduct business, we continually assess whether the regulatory assets continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets and liabilities would be recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could impact our ability to pay dividends under PUHCA. Because our current rates include the recovery of existing regulatory assets and liabilities, and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow us to earn a reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the states where we do business, but is subject to change in the future. Nuclear Decommissioning (Generation) We currently have direct ownership interests in 16 active nuclear generating units and four retired nuclear generating units. In addition, we own a 50% equity interest in AmerGen, which operates three active nuclear generating units. In connection with the operation of our nuclear units, the NRC requires us to begin decommissioning these facilities after their NRC operating license lives end, generally 40 years from the date of initial operation, and complete the decommissioning within 60 years after cessation of operation. Generation has, however, requested or is in the process of requesting the extension of these license lives for several nuclear generating stations. The decommissioning of a nuclear generating station involves the decontamination of structures and components, the removal of high level and 57 low level radioactive materials from the site for disposal at a licensed facility and for certain stations, the restoration of the station sites to a natural state. We estimate that, once started, decommissioning of a site can generally be completed in 10 years. Based on the projected extended license lives of our nuclear plants, we will begin decommissioning our plants from 2014 through 2056, with expenditures primarily occurring when our operating plants are decommissioned, during the period from 2029 through 2056. PECO and ComEd currently recover certain decommissioning costs in regulated rates. The amounts recovered are deposited in trust accounts and invested for funding of future decommissioning costs for active and inactive generating units. As part of the 2001 corporate restructuring, the generation related assets and liabilities of ComEd and PECO were transferred to Generation. The accounting for our receipt of decommissioning collections and recognition of decommissioning liabilities varies between the plants that were previously owned by ComEd or by PECO prior to restructuring. We account for the current periods cost of decommissioning related to generating plants previously owned by PECO by following regulatory accounting principles and recording a charge to depreciation expense and a corresponding liability in accumulated depreciation concurrent with decommissioning collections from rate payers. Our regulatory accounting principles for the generating stations previously owned by ComEd were discontinued when those stations were transferred to Generation. Those stations included both operating and retired units. For operating units, the difference between the current cost decommissioning estimate and the decommissioning liability recorded in accumulated depreciation is amortized to depreciation expense on a straight line basis over the remaining lives. For retired units, the current cost decommissioning estimate is recorded in deferred credits and other liabilities and accreted to depreciation expense. Under regulatory accounting principles, gains and losses on marketable securities held in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds are reported in accumulated depreciation. After regulatory accounting principles are discontinued, unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities held in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Realized gains and losses on decommissioning trust funds are reflected in other income and deductions in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Due to the sharp declines in the equity market since the third quarter of 2000, the value of our nuclear decommissioning trust funds has also decreased. In 2002, contributions to these trust funds of $112 million were offset by net realized and unrealized losses of $224 million, resulting in a 4% decrease in the trust funds balance at December 31, 2002 compared to December 31, 2001. We believe that the amounts that ComEd and PECO are recovering from customers through electric rates, along with the earnings on the trust funds, will be sufficient to fund our decommissioning obligations. Cost estimates for decommissioning our nuclear facilities have been prepared by an independent engineering firm and reflect currently existing regulatory requirements and available technology. Our current estimate of our nuclear facilities decommissioning cost is $7.4 billion in current year (2003) dollars. Calculating this estimate involves significant assumptions about the expected increases in decommissioning costs relative to general inflation rates, changes in the regulatory environment or regulatory requirements, and the timing of decommissioning. Significant changes in these assumptions could materially affect the liabilities and future costs related to decommissioning recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The estimated service life of the nuclear station is also a significant assumption because decommissioning and depreciation costs are generally recognized over the life of the generating station. In 2001, we extended nuclear station service lives, over which the decommissioning costs are recognized, by 20 years. Effective April 1, 2001, we extended the estimated service lives by 20 years for three nuclear stations. Effective July 1, 2001, we extended the estimated service lives by 20 years for the remainder of Generations operating nuclear stations. These changes were based on engineering 58 and economic feasibility studies we performed considering, among other things, future capital and maintenance expenditures at these plants. The service life extension is subject to NRC approval of an extension of existing NRC operating licenses. As a result of the change, net income for 2002 and 2001 increased approximately $132 million ($79 million, net of income taxes) and approximately $90 million ($60 million, net income taxes), respectively. Although we consider the service life extension authorization to be probable, if the extensions were denied, our results of operations would be adversely impacted by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. SFAS No. 143. The accounting for our nuclear decommissioning obligation will be affected by the adoption of SFAS No. 143, "Asset Retirement Obligations" (SFAS No. 143) effective January 1, 2003. SFAS No. 143 provides accounting requirements for retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. Retirement obligations associated with long lived assets included within the scope of SFAS No. 143 are those for which there is a legal obligation under existing or enacted law, statute, written or oral contract or by legal construction under the doctrine of promissory estoppel. The effect of this cumulative adjustment on nuclear decommissioning will be to change the decommissioning liability to reflect the fair value of the decommissioning obligation at the balance sheet date. Additionally, SFAS No. 143 will require the recording of an asset related to the decommissioning obligation, which will be amortized over the remaining lives of the plants. The net difference, between the asset recognized and the adjustment to the decommissioning liability, recorded upon adoption of SFAS No. 143 will be charged to earnings and recognized as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of expected regulatory recovery and net of taxes. The decommissioning liability to be recorded will represent the fair value of the obligation for the future decommissioning of the plants and, as a result, accretion expense will be accrued on this liability until the obligation is satisfied. As noted above, we currently record the obligation for decommissioning ratably over the lives of the plants. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 143 on our financial condition. Based on the current information and the credit adjusted risk free rate, we estimate the increase in 2003 non cash expense to impact earnings before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for the adoption of SFAS No. 143 by approximately $30 million, after income taxes. Additionally, the adoption of SFAS No. 143 is expected to result in non cash, one time cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle gain of approximately $1.9 billion, after income taxes. The $1.9 billion gain and the $30 million charge includes our share of the impact of the SFAS No. 143 adoption related to AmerGens nuclear plants. These impacts are based on our current interpretation of SFAS No. 143 and are subject to continued refinement based on the finalization of assumptions and interpretation at the time of adopting the standard, including the determination of the credit adjusted risk free rate. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation will continue to be adjusted on an ongoing basis as these model input factors change. In accordance with SFAS No. 143, we used a probabilistic cash flow model with multiple scenarios in order to determine the fair value of the decommissioning obligation. SFAS No. 143 also stipulates that fair value represent the amount a third party would receive for assuming all of an entitys obligation. Key assumptions used in our determination of fair value as defined in SFAS No. 143 include: decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party these decommissioning studies represent a marketplace assessment of costs and the timing of retirement activities validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates 59 annual cost escalation studies to determine escalation factors based on inflation indices used in decommissioning cost studies for the following major categories: labor, equipment and materials, energy, other (taxes, insurance, fees, etc.), and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. use of probabilistic cash flow models to measure the fair value including: the probability of various cost levels, and the probability of various timing scenarios incorporating the factors of current license lives and life extension and the timing of DOE acceptance for disposal of our spent nuclear fuel. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA), the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is responsible for the selection and development of repositories for, and the disposal of, spent nuclear fuel and high level radioactive waste (SNF). As required by the NWPA, ComEd and PECO, each signed a contract with the DOE (Standard Contract) to provide for disposal of SNF from their respective nuclear generating stations. The NWPA and the Standard Contract required the DOE to begin taking possession of SNF generated by nuclear generating units by no later than January 31, 1998. The DOE, however, failed to meet that deadline and its performance will be significantly delayed. The DOE currently estimates it will open a SNF facility in 2010. This extended delay requires us to retain possession of the SNF, thus increasing decommissioning costs including the operation and maintenance of facilities to store SNF until the DOE removes it from our sites. The NRC regulatory guidance suggests that decommissioning cost studies be updated every five years. Most of our studies were prepared in 1995 and 1996 and are in the process of being updated. Although no significant changes in decommissioning technologies have occurred since the studies were performed, and annual cost escalation studies are performed to determine the escalation factor applied to the base year cost study, changes in these cost studies could have a material impact on the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation. The final determination of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle is also in part a function of the credit adjusted risk free rate at the time of the adoption of the standard. Additionally, although over the life of the plant, the charges to earnings for the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability will be equal to the amounts that would have been recognized as decommissioning expense under the current accounting, the timing of those charges will change and in the near term period subsequent to adoption, the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability are expected to result in an increase in expense. Asset Impairments Long Lived Assets and Investments. (ComEd, PECO and Generation). SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets" (SFAS No. 144), establishes accounting and reporting standards for both the impairment and disposal of long lived assets. SFAS No. 144 continues the FASB requirements that: an impairment loss be recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows, and the impairment loss be measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. 60 Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, "The Equity Method of Accounting for Investment in Common Stock," requires that an impairment loss be recognized for an investment if the investment declines in fair value below its amortized cost basis, and this decline is judged to be other than temporary. We continually monitor our investments and businesses and the markets in which these businesses operate in order to determine events that may trigger an impairment. We test our businesses and investments for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Such triggering events may include a current expectation that there is a likelihood of 50% or greater that a long lived asset will be sold, competitors technological advancement, accelerated distributions of public holdings at a loss, lack of achievability of financial results versus plan, limited access to capital, or the loss of a major customer, among others. The analysis of impairment for long lived and intangible assets is subject to an undiscounted cash flow analysis that requires significant assumptions. In 2002, ComEd, PECO and Generation did not identify factors through this review process that indicated potential impairment of property, plant and equipment or other long lived assets. Goodwill (ComEd). Under SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS No. 142), goodwill is also subject to an assessment for impairment using a two step fair value based test, the first step of which must be performed at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. If an impairment is determined at ComEd, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed at ComEd. We performed the first step of the SFAS No. 142 impairment analysis, comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill, as of January 1, 2002, upon adoption of SFAS No. 142. That first step indicated no impairment of ComEds goodwill. In performing the Step I tests as prescribed in SFAS No. 142, ComEd determined that discounted cash flow models would provide the most appropriate measure to determine Step I fair value. Consistent with the guidance in SFAS No. 142, ComEd prepared multiple scenario discounted cash flow models in order to determine the value for Step I of SFAS No. 142. These models use multiple assumptions including revenue growth rates, general expense escalation rates, allowed return on equity, a risk adjusted discount rate and long term earnings multiples of comparable companies. In addition to the above noted assumptions, ComEds model included varying assumptions regarding: The timing of future rate case filings to establish new rates for bundled service after the then scheduled 2004 expiration of the rate freeze period, which has subsequently been extended to 2006 by Illinois law. Rate changes were assumed to occur at various points in 2005 through 2007 in the different scenarios. The cash flow impact of the expiration of the rate freeze and the resolution of uncertainties regarding future commodity risk at the expiration of the current PPA with Generation, the resolution of ComEds POLR obligation and various other risks and uncertainties. The results of the Step I analysis for ComEd showed a weighted average probabilistic valuation of the multiple scenario discounted cash flows in excess of ComEds book carrying amount, including goodwill, at December 31, 2001. Since the Step I calculated fair value was in excess of book value, we could conclude that ComEds goodwill of $4.9 billion was not impaired. As required by SFAS No. 142, ComEd performed the annual update of ComEds goodwill impairment analyses using a November 1, 2002 measurement date. This valuation determined the Step I calculated fair value of ComEd to be in excess of its book value at November 1, 2002. Since the Step I calculated fair value was in excess of book value, we concluded that goodwill was not impaired. Again, the probabilistic discounted cash flows model used in these analyses included the significant 61 assumptions noted above. Rate changes were assumed to occur at various points in 2007 through 2009 in the different scenarios for ComEd based on the June 2002 extension of the rate freeze. Modifications to any of the assumptions discussed above, particularly changes in discount rates, long term earnings multiples of comparable companies used to determine terminal values, and the expected results of rate proceedings, could result in a future impairment of goodwill. Actual results as well as market conditions in upcoming periods will impact the probabilities of scenarios used in the models. If the estimates of future cash flows in the ComEd model had been 10% lower, those discounted cash flows would still have been greater than the carrying values of ComEd. As we were not required to perform a Step II analysis at the November 1, 2002 measurement date for ComEd, a dollar amount for any potential impairment has not been determined. Because goodwill represents approximately 85% of ComEds common equity, a potential future impairment of goodwill could significantly impact ComEds ability to pay dividends to Exelon under PUHCA. The Illinois legislation provides that reductions to ComEds common equity resulting from goodwill impairments will not impact ComEds earnings cap calculation through 2006. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to essentially all ComEd, PECO, and Generation employees. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation, and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon utilizes assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increase and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions" (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 106, "Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions" the impact of changes in these factors on pension and other postretirement welfare benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected remaining service life of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. In selecting the expected rate of return on plan assets, Exelon considered historical and expected returns for the types of investments the plans hold. Exelons pension trust assets have lost $581 million, and $265 million, and gained $173 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.5% at January 1, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Exelon generally maintains 60% of its plan assets in equity securities and 40% of its plan assets in fixed income securities. Each quarter Exelon reviews the actual asset allocations and follows a rebalancing procedure in order to remain within an allowable range of these targeted percentages. Based on Exelons asset allocation and long term historical returns for both equity and fixed income securities, Exelon set its EROA at 9.0% as of January 1, 2003 in order to calculate 2003 pension cost. Exelons other postretirement benefit assets have lost $125 million, $14 million and $7 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The EROA assumption used in calculating the other postretirement benefit obligation was 8.8% at January 1, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Exelon will use an EROA assumption of 8.4% as of January 1, 2003 in order to calculate the 2003 other postretirement benefit costs. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. Exelon uses the Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index as a basis in selecting the discount rate. Exelon set the assumed discount rate at 7.35% and 6.75% at December 31, 2001 and 2002, respectively, in its estimate of pension expense and other postretirement benefit costs. 62 The following table illustrates the effect of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above: Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2002 Impact on Pension Liability at December 31, 2002 Impact on 2003 Pension Cost Pension Benefits Decrease Discount Rate by 0.5% $ 336 $ 336 $ 8 Decrease Rate of Return on Plan Assets by 0.5% 32 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2002 Impact on Postretirement Benefit Liability at December 31, 2002 Impact on 2003 Postretirement Benefit Cost Postretirement Benefits Decrease Discount Rate by 0.5% $ 152 $ $ 18 Decrease Rate of Return on Plan Assets by 0.5% 6 The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during Exelons annual review process. The impact of assumption changes are reflected in the recorded pension amounts consistent with assumption changes as they occur. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension amounts and funding requirements could also change. Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plans have unrecognized losses of $2.1 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2002. This unrecognized loss primarily represents the difference between the expected return on plan assets and the actual return on plan assets that has not yet been recognized in pension or other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon generally amortizes these unrecognized (gains)/losses over five years; however, the annual amortization amounts vary based on actuarial determinations. Recognition of an unrecognized loss will result in increased net periodic pension cost going forward. Primarily as a result of sharp declines in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000, Exelon recognized an additional minimum liability of $1.0 billion, net of income taxes, and an intangible asset of $211 million as prescribed by SFAS No. 87 in the fourth quarter of 2002. The liability was recorded as a reduction to shareholders equity, and the equity will be restored to the balance sheet in future periods when the fair value of plan assets exceeds the accumulated benefit obligation. The recording of this additional minimum liability did not affect net income or cash flow in 2002 or compliance with debt covenants; however, pension cost and cash funding requirements could increase in future years without a substantial recovery in the equity markets. Exelons defined benefit pension plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 without any additional funding; however, Exelon made a discretionary tax deductible plan contribution of $150 million in the fourth quarter of 2002, of which $82 million and $60 million were funded by ComEd and Generation, respectively. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary tax deductible plan contribution in 2003 of $300 million to $350 million. Approximately $15 million, $22 million and $37 million were included in operating and maintenance expense in 2002 for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively, for the cost of our pension and postretirement benefit plans, exclusive of the 2002 charges for employee severance programs. Although the 2003 increase in pension and postretirement benefit cost will depend on market conditions, Exelons estimate is that expense will increase by approximately $48 million, 63 $21 million and $52 million for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively, in 2003 from 2002 expense levels as the result of the effects of the decline in market value of plan assets in 2002, the decline in discount rate and increases in health care costs. In 2001, Exelon adopted a cash balance pension plan. All management and electing union employees who were hired by Exelon after 2001 became participants in the plan. Approximately 4,700 management employees who were active participants in Exelons previous qualified defined benefit plans at December 31, 2000 and remained employed by Exelon on January 1, 2002 elected to transfer to the cash balance plan. Participants in the cash balance plan, unlike participants in the other defined benefit plans, may request a lump sum cash payment upon employee termination. This may result in increased cash requirements from pension plan assets, which may increase future funding to the pension plan. Stock Based Compensation Plans (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon maintains a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for certain full time salaried employees and previously maintained a broad based incentive program for certain other employees. The types of long term incentive awards that have been granted under the LTIP are non qualified options to purchase shares of our common stock and common stock awards. The exercise price of the stock options is equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of option grant. Options granted under the LTIP and the broad based incentive program become exercisable upon attainment of a target share value and or time. All options expire 10 years from the date of grant. At December 31, 2002, there were 13,000,000 options authorized for issuance under Exelons LTIP and 2,000,000 options authorized under Exelons broad based incentive program. ComEd, PECO and Generation currently follow the disclosure only provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" (SFAS No. 123). If ComEd, PECO and Generation had elected to account for stock based compensation based on SFAS No. 123, ComEd, PECO and Generation would have recognized compensation expense as follows: 2002 2001 2000 ComEd $ 13 $ 10 $ 13 (a) PECO 13 15 17 Generation 15 9 10 (a)Includes Unicom expense of $3 million for the period of 2000 prior to the Merger. Exelon uses an independent actuarial firm to calculate the fair value of the options and to assist in the development of amounts required to be disclosed under SFAS No. 123. The key assumptions used in this determination of fair value are the expected volatility of the stock price, based on historical information; the expected life of the options, based on the vesting period and expiration date of the options; the estimated dividend yield, based on historical information adjusted for material known future changes; and the risk free interest rate, based on the yield of a United States Treasury Strip available on the date of the grant and expiring at the approximate end of the options term. Changes in these assumptions could have resulted in material changes in the amounts disclosed under SFAS No. 123 in ComEd, PECO and Generations Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Combinations (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In the three year period ended December 31, 2002, Exelon has completed several business combinations and asset acquisitions. Exelon adopted SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" (SFAS No. 141), as of January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 141 is effective for business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations be accounted for under the 64 purchase method of accounting and establishes criteria for the separate recognition of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. Under the purchase method of accounting, purchased assets and liabilities must be recorded at their fair value. If a quoted fair value is not readily available for the majority of assets and liabilities exchanged, the determination of this fair value requires the use of significant judgment, both by management and outside experts engaged to assist in this determination process. Changes in the assumptions made in determining the fair values could have resulted in material changes in the amounts disclosed in Note 3 of the Notes to ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5 of the Notes to PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes 2 and 4 of the Notes to Generations Consolidated Financial Statements. There would also be an impact on Exelons financial results. If the fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired in a business combination would have been higher, and an amount allocated to goodwill in the business combination lower, depreciation expense would have been higher. Conversely, if the fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired in a business combination would have been lower, and an amount allocated to goodwill in the business combination higher, depreciation expense would have been lower. For example, if the $2 billion fair value of the generating plants acquired in the Merger was estimated to be 1% higher, then annual depreciation expense would be less than $1 million higher and goodwill amortization, which ceased in 2002, would have been less than $1 million lower annually. Unbilled Energy Revenues (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to ComEd and PECOs sale of energy are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month since the date of the last meter reading are estimated and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand measured by generation volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers (line loss) and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2002 include unbilled energy revenues of $250 million on a base of annual revenue of $6.1 billion for ComEd and $129 million on a base of annual revenue of $4.3 billion for PECO. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue. Revenues related to Generations sale of energy are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand, fixed quantity sales, generation volume and applicable market or fixed rates. Customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2002 include unbilled energy revenues of $370 million on a base of annual revenue of $6.9 billion. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Environmental Costs (ComEd, PECO and Generation) As of December 31, 2002, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $101 million, $40 million and $15 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which we will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where timing, scope and expenditures of remediation efforts can be reasonably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts, recorded at ComEd, represent $97 million of the total ComEd accrued liabilities above. Where the timing, scope 65 and expenditures of remediation efforts cannot be reasonably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $4 million, $40 million and $15 million of the total accrued liabilities above for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology and changes in regulations or the requirements of Federal, state and local governmental authorities. During 2002, ComEd increased its reserve for environmental costs by $17 million as the result of a delay in implementing the ongoing remediation for a manufactured gas plant site in Oak Park, Illinois. New Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 143 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143. SFAS No. 143 provides accounting requirements for retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. We will adopt SFAS No. 143 as of January 1, 2003. Retirement obligations associated with long lived assets included within the scope of SFAS No. 143 are those for which there is a legal obligation to settle under existing or enacted law, statute, written or oral contract or by legal construction under the doctrine of promissory estoppel. Adoption of SFAS No. 143 will change the accounting for the decommissioning of our nuclear generating plants as well as certain other long lived assets. ComEd, PECO and Generation are in the process of evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 143 on their financial condition. While ComEd and PECO do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143 to have a material impact on their financial condition, Generation does expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143 to have a material impact on its financial condition related to its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants. As it relates to nuclear decommissioning, the effect of a cumulative adjustment will be to decrease the decommissioning liability to reflect the fair value of the decommissioning obligation at the balance sheet date. Additionally, SFAS No. 143 will require the recognition of an asset related to the decommissioning obligation, which will be amortized over the remaining lives of the plants. The net difference, between the asset recognized and the change in the liability to reflect fair value recorded upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, will be recorded in earnings and recognized as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of expected regulatory recovery and income taxes. The decommissioning liability will then represent an obligation for the future decommissioning of the plants and, as a result, accretion expense will be accrued on this liability until the obligation is satisfied. Currently, Generation records the obligation for decommissioning ratably over the lives of the plants. Based on the current information and the credit adjusted risk free rate, Generation estimates the increase in 2003 non cash expense to impact Generation earnings before the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for the adoption of SFAS No. 143 by approximately $30 million, after income taxes. Additionally, the adoption of SFAS No. 143 is expected to result in a non cash, one time cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle gain at Generation of approximately $1.9 billion, after income taxes. The $1.9 billion gain and the $30 million charge includes Generations share of the impact of the SFAS No. 143 adoption related to AmerGens nuclear plants. These impacts are based on Generations current interpretation of SFAS No. 143 and are subject to continued refinement based on the finalization of assumptions and interpretation at the time of adopting the standard, including the determination of the credit adjusted risk free rate. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation will continue to be adjusted on an ongoing basis as these model input factors change. The final determination of the 2003 earnings impact and the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 143 is in part a function of the credit adjusted risk free rate at the time of the adoption of SFAS No. 143. Additionally, although over the life of the plant the charges to earnings for the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability will be equal to the amounts that would have been recognized as decommissioning expense under current accounting, the timing of those charges will change and in 66 the near term period subsequent to adoption, the depreciation of the asset and the interest on the liability is expected to result in an increase in expense. SFAS No. 146 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" (SFAS No. 146). SFAS No. 146 requires that the liability for costs associated with exit or disposal activities be recognized when incurred, rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. SFAS No. 146 is to be applied prospectively to exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. FIN No. 45 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In November 2002, the FASB released FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" (FIN No. 45), providing for expanded disclosures and recognition of a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken by the guarantor. Under FIN No. 45, guarantors are required to disclose the nature of the guarantee, the maximum amount of potential future payments, the carrying amount of the liability and the nature and amount of recourse provisions or available collateral that would be recoverable by the guarantor. As of December 31, 2002, we have adopted disclosure requirements under FIN No. 45, which were effective for financial statements for periods ended after December 15, 2002. The recognition and measurement provisions of FIN No. 45 are effective, on a prospective basis, for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. FIN No. 46 (ComEd, PECO and Generation) In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" (FIN No. 46). FIN No. 46 addresses consolidating certain variable interest entities and applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. The impact, if any, of adopting FIN 46 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, has not been fully determined. 67  ComEd General On October 20, 2000, ComEd became a 99.9% owned subsidiary of Exelon as a result of the transactions relating to the Merger. As a result of the Merger, ComEds consolidated financial information for the period after the Merger has a different cost basis than that of previous periods. Material variances caused by the different cost basis have been disclosed where applicable. Through December 31, 2000, ComEd operated as a vertically integrated electric utility. During January 2001, Exelon undertook a restructuring to separate its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery business. As part of the restructuring, the non regulated operations and related assets and liabilities of ComEd were transferred to separate subsidiaries of Exelon. As a result, beginning January 2001, the operations of ComEd principally consist of the purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in northern Illinois. The restructuring has had a significant impact on all components of ComEds results of operations. The estimated impact of the restructuring set forth herein reflects the effects of removing the operations related to ComEds nuclear generating stations and obtaining energy and capacity from Generation under the terms of the PPA for the year ended December 31, 2000. 68 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends ComEd 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power 2,585 2,670 (85 ) (3.2 )% Operating and Maintenance 964 981 (17 ) (1.7 )% Depreciation and Amortization 522 665 (143 ) (21.5 )% Taxes Other Than Income 287 296 (9 ) (3.0 )% Total Operating Expense 4,358 4,612 (254 ) (5.5 )% OPERATING INCOME 1,766 1,594 172 10.8% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (484 ) (565 ) 81 (14.3 )% Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities (30 ) (30 ) Other, Net 44 114 (70 ) (61.4 )% Total Other Income and Deductions (470 ) (481 ) 11 (2.3 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 1,296 1,113 183 16.4% INCOME TAXES 506 506 NET INCOME $ 790 $ 607 $ 183 30.1% Net Income Net income increased $183 million, or 30% in 2002. Net income was primarily impacted by the discontinuation of goodwill amortization, lower depreciation rates effective August 1, 2002, lower interest expense and a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by the effects of a 5% residential rate reduction effective October 1, 2001, customers electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO and lower intercompany interest income. 69 Operating Revenues ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs)(1) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Deliveries(2) Residential 27,474 25,282 2,192 8.7 % Small Commercial & Industrial 22,365 23,435 (1,070 ) (4.6 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 7,885 10,305 (2,420 ) (23.5 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 6,480 7,879 (1,399 ) (17.8 )% 64,204 66,901 (2,697 ) (4.0 )% Unbundled Deliveries(3) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 5,219 2,865 2,354 82.2 % Large Commercial & Industrial 7,095 5,458 1,637 30.0 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 912 365 547 149.9 % 13,226 8,688 4,538 52.2 % PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 3,152 3,279 (127 ) (3.9 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 5,131 5,750 (619 ) (10.8 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 1,347 987 360 36.5 % 9,630 10,016 (386 ) (3.9 )% Total Unbundled Deliveries 22,856 18,704 4,152 22.2 % Total Retail Deliveries 87,060 85,605 1,455 1.7 % (1)One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWhs. (2)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (3)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 70 Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Revenues(1) Residential $ 2,381 $ 2,308 $ 73 3.2 % Small Commercial & Industrial 1,736 1,821 (85 ) (4.7 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 410 523 (113 ) (21.6 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 377 430 (53 ) (12.3 )% 4,904 5,082 (178 ) (3.5 )% Unbundled Revenues(2) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 138 48 90 187.5 % Large Commercial & Industrial 154 74 80 108.1 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 28 5 23 n.m. 320 127 193 152.0 % PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 204 220 (16 ) (7.3 )% Large Commercial & Industrial 278 343 (65 ) (19.0 )% Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 71 59 12 20.3 % 553 622 (69 ) (11.1 )% Total Unbundled Revenues 873 749 124 16.6 % Total Electric Retail Revenues 5,777 5,831 (54 ) (0.9 )% Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 347 375 (28 ) (7.5 )% Total Electric Revenue $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% (1)Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2)Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission, and distribution charges and a CTC charge. (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer Choice $ (131 ) Rate Changes (99 ) Weather 88 Volume 91 Other Effects (3 ) Retail Revenue $ (54 ) Customer Choice. The decrease in revenues reflects customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 22,700 retail customers had elected to purchase energy from an ARES or the ComEd PPO, an increase from 18,700 customers at December 31, 2001. The megawatthours (MWhs or the equivalent of one thousand KWhs) delivered to such customers increased from approximately 18.7 million in 2001 to 22.9 million in 2002, a 22% increase from the previous year. 71 Rate Changes. The decrease attributable to rate changes reflects a 5% residential rate reduction, effective October 1, 2001, required by the Illinois restructuring legislation. Weather. The demand for electricity service is impacted by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months is referred to as "favorable weather conditions," because these weather conditions result in increased demand for electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. The weather impact for 2002 was favorable compared to 2001 as a result of warmer summer weather and slightly cooler winter weather in 2002 compared to 2001. Cooling degree days increased 29% and heating degree days increased 3% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of weather, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily residential. The reduction in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due primarily to a $38 million decrease in off system sales due to the expiration of wholesale contracts that were offered by ComEd from June 2000 to May 2001 to support the open access program in Illinois, and a $15 million reversal of reserve for revenue refunds in 2001 related to certain of ComEds municipal customers as a result of a favorable FERC ruling, partially offset by a reimbursement from Generation of $12 million for third party energy reconciliations and $13 million of other miscellaneous revenue. Purchased Power Purchased power expense decreased $85 million, or 3% in 2002. The decrease in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a $145 million decrease as a result of customers choosing to purchase energy from an ARES and a $34 million decrease due to the expiration of the wholesale contracts offered by ComEd to support the open access program in Illinois partially offset by a $41 million increase associated with increased retail demand due to favorable weather conditions, a $16 million increase due to the effects of increased weather normalized volumes for residential and small commercial and industrial customers, an $18 million increase due to an increase in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost per MWh of electricity and $20 million in additional expense as a result of third party energy reconciliations. Operating and Maintenance The $17 million decrease in operating and maintenance (O&M) expense is comprised of $32 million of lower payroll costs due to employee reductions, $16 million in cost reductions from Exelons Cost Management Initiative and $24 million miscellaneous other net positive impacts, partially offset by $25 million in additional employee benefit costs, a $16 million net increase in environmental and remediation expense and a $14 million increase in injuries and damages expense. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $143 million, or 22%, in 2002 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Depreciation Expense $ 334 $ 353 $ (19 ) (5.4 )% Recoverable Transition Costs Amortization 102 108 (6 ) (5.6 )% Other Amortization Expense 86 204 (118 ) (57.8 )% Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 522 $ 665 $ (143 ) (21.5 )% 72 The decrease in depreciation expense is due to a $48 million decrease related to lower depreciation rates partially offset by the effect of higher in service property, plant and equipment balances. Recoverable transition costs amortization expense is determined using the expected period of the rate freeze and the expected returns in the periods under the rate freeze. The reduction in amortization expense in 2002 is due to the extension of the rate freeze in the second quarter of 2002. ComEd expects to fully recover these assets by the end of 2006. The decrease in Other Amortization Expense is primarily attributable to the discontinuation of amortization of goodwill as required by SFAS No. 142. During 2001, $126 million of goodwill was amortized. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased by $9 million, or 3% in 2002. The primary positive impact was the result of real estate tax refunds in the amount of $5 million. Interest Charges Interest charges decreased $81 million, or 14% in 2002. The decrease in interest charges was primarily attributable to the impact of lower interest rates for 2002 as compared to 2001, the early retirement of $196 million of First Mortgage Bonds in November of 2001, the retirement of $340 million in transitional trust notes during 2002, and $10 million of intercompany interest expense in 2001 relating to a payable in Generation, which was repaid during 2001. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions, excluding interest charges, decreased $70 million, or 61%, in 2002. The decrease was primarily attributable to $8 million in intercompany interest income relating to the $400 million receivable from PECO which was repaid during the second quarter of 2001, a $31 million reduction in intercompany interest income from Unicom Investment Inc., reflecting lower interest rates, $9 million in intercompany interest income from Generation in 2001 on the processing of certain invoice payments on behalf of Generation, a $12 million reserve for a potential plant disallowance resulting from an audit performed in conjunction with ComEds delivery services rate case, and an $10 million decrease in various other income and deductions items. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.0% in 2002, compared to 45.5% in 2001. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the discontinuation of goodwill amortization as of January 1, 2002, which was not deductible for income tax purposes, and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. 73 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Summary Financial Information ComEd Components of Variance 2001 2000 Restructuring Impact Normal Operations Total (in millions) OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,206 $ 7,012 $ (707 ) $ (99 ) $ (806 ) Purchased Power and Fuel 2,670 1,977 677 16 693 Operating and Maintenance 981 2,076 (1,072 ) (23 ) (1,095 ) Merger Related Costs 67 (67 ) (67 ) Depreciation and Amortization 665 998 (282 ) (51 ) (333 ) Taxes Other Than Income 296 508 (131 ) (81 ) (212 ) Total Operating Expenses 4,612 5,626 (808 ) (206 ) (1,014 ) OPERATING INCOME 1,594 1,386 101 107 208 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (565 ) (602 ) 43 (6 ) 37 Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding Solely the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities (30 ) (30 ) Other, Net 114 308 (194 ) (194 ) Total Other Income and Deductions (481 ) (324 ) 43 (200 ) (157 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 1,113 1,062 144 (93 ) 51 INCOME TAXES 506 330 72 104 176 NET INCOME 607 732 72 (197 ) (125 ) Preferred and Preference Stock Dividends (3 ) 3 3 NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 607 $ 729 $ 72 $ (194 ) $ (122 ) Net Income Net income from normal operations decreased $197 million, or 25% in 2001. Net income was impacted by $107 million in increased operating income offset by a higher effective tax rate and a $194 million decrease in other income and deductions primarily attributable to a gain on the forward share purchase arrangement recognized during 2000 and a reduction in intercompany interest income in 2001 as compared to 2000. 74 Operating Revenues Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and distribution of the energy. Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from the PPO or an ARES. Revenue from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges and a CTC charge. Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2001 2000 Variance Bundled Deliveries(1) Residential 25,282 23,997 1,285 Small Commercial & Industrial 23,435 24,833 (1,398 ) Large Commercial & Industrial 10,305 15,348 (5,043 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 7,879 7,665 214 66,901 71,843 (4,942 ) Unbundled Deliveries(2) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 2,865 2,772 93 Large Commercial & Industrial 5,458 5,807 (349 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 365 297 68 8,688 8,876 (188 ) PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 3,279 1,433 1,846 Large Commercial & Industrial 5,750 2,812 2,938 Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 987 1,088 (101 ) 10,016 5,333 4,683 Total Unbundled Deliveries 18,704 14,209 4,495 Total Retail Deliveries 85,605 86,052 (447 ) (1)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 75 Electric Revenue 2001 2000 Variance (in millions) Bundled Revenue(1) Residential $ 2,308 $ 2,235 $ 73 Small Commercial & Industrial 1,821 1,949 (128 ) Large Commercial & Industrial 523 811 (288 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 430 424 6 5,082 5,419 (337 ) Unbundled Revenue(2) ARES Small Commercial & Industrial 48 62 (14 ) Large Commercial & Industrial 74 115 (41 ) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 5 7 (2 ) 127 184 (57 ) PPO Small Commercial & Industrial 220 92 128 Large Commercial & Industrial 343 158 185 Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 59 56 3 622 306 316 Total Unbundled Revenues 749 490 259 Total Electric Retail Revenues 5,831 5,909 (78 ) Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 375 396 (4) (21 ) Total Electric Revenues $ 6,206 $ 6,305 $ (99 ) (1)Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2)Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission, and distribution charges and a CTC charge. (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. (4)Includes the operations of ComEd as if the 2001 corporate restructuring had occurred on January 1, 2000. The changes in electric retail revenues for 2001, as compared to 2000, were attributable to the following: Variance (in millions) Customer Choice $ (145 ) Weather 103 Revenue Taxes (88 ) Other Effects 76 Rate Changes (24 ) Electric Retail Revenue $ (78 ) Customer Choice. ComEd non residential customers have the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers. This choice generally does not impact MWh deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd. The decrease in revenues reflects customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. As of December 31, 2001, 76 approximately 18,700 retail customers, representing 22% of total annual retail deliveries, had elected to purchase energy from the PPO or an ARES, compared to approximately 9,500 customers, representing 17% of total annual retail deliveries, as of December 31, 2000. Weather. Although weather was moderate in 2001, the weather impact was favorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer summer weather offset in part by warmer winter weather in 2001. Cooling degree days increased 11% in 2001 compared to 2000 while heating degree days decreased 5% in 2001 compared to 2000. Revenue taxes. The change in revenue taxes represents a change in presentation of certain revenue taxes from operating revenue and tax expense to collections recorded as liabilities resulting from Illinois legislation. This change in presentation does not affect results of operations. Other Effects. A strong housing construction market in Chicago has contributed to residential and small commercial and industrial customer volume growth, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a slower economy on large commercial and industrial customers. Rate Changes. The decrease in revenues attributable to rate changes reflects a 5% residential rate reduction, effective October 1, 2001, required by the Illinois restructuring legislation. The reduction in wholesale and miscellaneous revenues in 2001 as compared to 2000, as if the restructuring occurred on January 1, 2000, reflects a $101 million reduction in off system sales due to the expiration of wholesale contracts that were offered by ComEd from June 2000 to May 2001 to support the open access program in Illinois, partially offset by a $58 million increase in transmission service revenue and the reversal of a $15 million reserve for revenue refunds to ComEds municipal customers as a result of a favorable FERC ruling. Purchased Power and Fuel Purchased power and fuel expense increased $16 million, or 1%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense was primarily attributable to increases in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost per MWh, partially offset by a decrease in MWhs purchased. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense decreased $23 million, or 2%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The decrease in O&M expense was primarily attributable to a decrease in customer credit and billing costs due to process improvements and a decrease in storm restoration and service reliability costs, partially offset by higher administrative and general costs. Merger Related Costs Merger related costs charged to expense in 2000 were $67 million consisting of $26 million of direct incremental costs and $41 million for employee costs. Direct incremental costs represent expenses directly associated with completing the Merger, including professional fees, regulatory approval, and other merger integration costs. Employee costs represent estimated severance payments provided for under Exelons Merger Separation Plan for eligible employees whose positions were eliminated before October 20, 2000 due to planned integration activities of the merged companies. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $51 million, or 7%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. Regulatory asset and decommissioning amortization decreased $180 million primarily due to the gain on the settlement of the common stock forward purchase arrangement in the 77 first quarter of 2000, partially offset by a $103 million increase in goodwill amortization representing the impact of a full year of amortization expense in 2001 and a $26 million increase in depreciation expense from increased plant in service due to continued transmission and distribution capital improvements. Consistent with the provisions of the Illinois legislation, regulatory assets may be recovered at amounts that provide ComEd an earned return on common equity within the Illinois legislation earnings threshold. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Annual goodwill amortization of $126 million in 2001 was discontinued in 2002 upon the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased $81 million, or 21%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The decrease in taxes other than income was primarily attributable to the effect of the change in certain revenue taxes from operating revenue and tax expense to collections recorded as liabilities resulting from Illinois legislation. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts. Interest charges increased $6 million, or 1%, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of restructuring. The increase in interest expense was primarily attributable to increased interest accrued on estimated tax liabilities and interest due on amounts payable to affiliates. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions, excluding interest charges, decreased $194 million, compared to 2000. The decrease was primarily attributable to the $113 million gain on the forward share purchase arrangement recognized during 2000 and a $115 million reduction in intercompany interest income in 2001 from Unicom Investment, Inc., reflecting the impact of declining interest rates and an $850 million reduction in intercompany notes receivable in the fourth quarter of 2000, partially offset by the $38 million loss on the sale of Cotter Corporation, a ComEd subsidiary, recognized during 2000. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 45.5% in 2001, compared to 31.1% in 2000. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the effects of the gain on the forward share purchase arrangement recorded in 2000, which was not recognized for tax purposes, a full year of goodwill amortization in 2001, which is not deductible for tax purposes, the amortization of certain recoverable transition costs, which is not deductible for tax purposes and lower investment tax credit amortization resulting from the application of purchase accounting in connection with the Merger. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing including the issuance of commercial paper. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt and the payment of dividends. 78  Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations in 2002 were $2.0 billion as compared to $1.3 billion in 2001. The increase in cash flows in 2002 was primarily attributable to a $183 million increase in net income, a $175 million increase in other operating activities, and a $422 million increase in working capital partially offset by a decrease of $143 million in depreciation and amortization. ComEds future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve reductions in operating costs, the impact of the economy, weather, and customer choice on its revenues. Although the amounts may vary from period to period as a result of uncertainties inherent in the business, ComEd expects to continue to provide a reliable and steady source of internal cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. ComEd participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon made a $150 million discretionary plan contribution in 2002, $82 million of which was funded by ComEd. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary plan contribution of $300 million to $350 million in 2003. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $759 million in 2002 compared to $458 million in 2001. The increase in cash flows used in investing activities in 2002 was primarily attributable to the paydown of the $400 million outstanding receivable from PECO in the second quarter of 2001 partially offset by an $89 million decrease in capital expenditures. ComEds investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 were funded primarily through operating activities. ComEd estimates that it will spend approximately $720 million in total capital expenditures for 2003. Approximately two thirds of the budgeted 2003 expenditures are for continuing efforts to further improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems. The remaining one third is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. ComEd anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2002 were $1,231 million as compared to $1,006 million in 2001. Cash flows used in financing activities were primarily attributable to debt service and payments of dividends to Exelon. ComEds debt financing activities in 2002 reflected the issuance of $600 million of First Mortgage Bonds, the issuance of $100 million of Illinois Development Finance Authority floating rate Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds, the retirement of $340 million of transitional trust notes, the redemption of $600 million in First Mortgage Bonds with available cash, the payment at maturity of $200 million in First Mortgage Bonds, the payment at maturity of $200 million in variable rate senior notes, the payment at maturity of $100 million of fixed rate medium term notes and the redemption of $100 million of 7.25% Illinois Development Finance Authority Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds. As of December 31, 2002, ComEd had $123 million in short term borrowings of which $52 million has been classified as long term debt. In 2001, ComEds debt financing activities reflected the retirement of $340 million of transitional trust notes and the redemption of $196 million in First Mortgage Bonds. ComEd paid a $470 million dividend to Exelon during 2002 compared to a $483 million dividend in 2001. Credit Issues ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. ComEd, along with Exelon, PECO, and 79 Generation, participates in a $1.5 billion unsecured 364 day revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The credit facility that became effective on November 22, 2002, includes a term out option that allows any outstanding borrowings at the end of the revolving credit period to be repaid on November 21, 2004. Exelon may increase or decrease the sublimits of each of the participants upon written notification to the banks. As of December 31, 2002, ComEds sublimit was $200 million. The credit facility is used principally to support ComEds commercial paper program. At December 31, 2002, ComEds Balance Sheet reflects $123 million in commercial paper outstanding, of which $52 million was classified as long term debt. For 2002, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.69%. Certain of the credit agreements to which ComEd is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. ComEds threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, ComEd was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. At December 31, 2002, ComEds capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $615 million receivable from Exelon, consisted of 46% long term debt, 50% of common stock, 3% of preferred securities of subsidiaries, and 1% of notes payable. Long term debt included $2.0 billion of transitional trust notes constituting obligations of certain consolidated special purpose entities representing 16% of capitalization. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the Exelon corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether such funding results in mutual economic benefits to each of the participants, although Exelon is not permitted to be a net borrower from the money pool. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or specific borrowing rates if the funds are provided by external financing. There have been no material money pool transactions in 2002. ComEds access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. None of ComEds borrowings are subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows ComEds securities ratings at December 31, 2002: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings ComEd Senior secured debt A3 A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Under PUHCA, ComEd can only pay dividends from retained or current earnings; however, the SEC has authorized ComEd to pay up to $500 million in dividends out of additional paid in capital, provided ComEd may not pay dividends out of paid in capital after December 31, 2002 if its common equity is less than 30% of its total capitalization (including transitional trust notes). ComEd is 80 precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. At December 31, 2002, ComEd had retained earnings of $577 million. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments ComEds contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 6,024 (a) $ 750 (a) $ 1,383 $ 1,295 $ 2,596 Notes Payable 71 71 Operating Leases 135 22 38 32 43 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities 350 350 Total Contractual Obligations $ 6,580 $ 843 $ 1,421 $ 1,327 $ 2,989 (a)Includes $52 million of commercial paper classified as long term debt under the provisions of SFAS No. 6, "Classification of Short term Obligations to be Refinanced." On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt see Note 10 notes payable see Note 9 operating leases see Note 16 Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts Holding the Companys Subordinated Debt Securities see Note 13 Midwest Agreement see Note 19 81 ComEds commercial commitments as of December 31, 2002 representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, including financing arrangements to secure obligations of ComEd, are as follows: Expiration within After 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Credit Facility(a) $ 200 $ 200 $ $ $ Letters of Credit (non debt)(b) 24 24 Letter of Credit (Long term Debt)(c) 92 92 Insured Long Term Debt(d) 100 100 Surety Bonds(e) 18 18 Total Commercial Commitments $ 434 $ 334 $ $ $ 100 (a)Credit Facility ComEd, along with Exelon, PECO and Generation, maintain a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility to support commercial paper issuances. ComEd has a $200 million sublimit under the credit facility. At December 31, 2002, there were no borrowings against the credit facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, ComEd had $123 million in outstanding commercial paper. (b)Letters of Credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (c)Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt) Direct pay letters of credit issued in connection with variable rate debt in order to provide liquidity in the event that it is not possible to remarket all of the debt as required following specific events, including changes in the basis of determining the interest rate on the debt. (d)Insured Long Term Debt Borrowings that have been credit enhanced through the purchase of insurance coverage equal to the amount of principal outstanding plus interest. (e)Surety Bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial surety bonds, excluding bid bonds. As part of a settlement agreement between ComEd and Chicago relating to ComEds Chicago franchise agreement, ComEd and Chicago agreed to a revised combination of ongoing work under the franchise agreement and new initiatives that total approximately $1 billion in defined transmission and distribution expenditures by ComEd to improve electric service in Chicago, all of which has been expended through December 31, 2002. Critical Accounting Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds Critical Accounting Estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business ComEd faces a number of challenges in achieving its vision and keeping its commitments to its customers and investors. ComEd may be significantly impacted by the end of its regulatory transition period in 2006. A significant challenge is that by existing law, after 2006, ComEd will not collect CTCs from customers who elect to receive generation services from alternative energy suppliers including the ComEd PPO. Additionally, the current bundled rate structure may be reset in a regulatory proceeding. It is difficult to predict the outcome of a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates for 2007 and thereafter; nor is it possible to predict what changes may occur to the restructuring law in Illinois; 82 however, ComEd is undertaking various efforts to mitigate the 2007 challenge. This and other challenges that will affect how ComEd manages its business are described below. ComEd must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing its business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. ComEds business is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. ComEd is regulated by the ICC which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between ComEd and its affiliates. ComEd is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates transmission rates and certain other aspects of its business. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which ComEd does business, its ability to undertake specified actions and the costs of its operations. ComEd is involved in a number of regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of ComEds costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, ComEd looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grant some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. Delivery Services Rate Case. ComEd is authorized to charge customers who purchase electricity from an alternative supplier for the use of its distribution system to deliver that electricity. These delivery service rates are set through proceedings before the ICC based upon, among other things, the operating costs associated with ComEds distribution system and the capital investment that ComEd has made in its distribution system. In April 2002, the ICC issued an interim order that set delivery rates for ComEds residential customers. The interim order was subject to an audit of test year (2000) expenditures, including capital expenditures. In October 2002, the ICC received the report on the audit of the test year expenditures by a consulting firm engaged by the ICC to perform the audit. The consulting firm recommended certain additional disallowances to test year expenditures and rate base levels. ComEd does not expect any change in delivery service rates to have a significant impact on results of operations in 2003. However, the estimated potential investment write off, before income taxes, could be up to approximately $100 million if the ICC ultimately determines that all or some portion of ComEds distribution plant is not recoverable through rates. In 2002, ComEd recorded a charge to earnings, before income taxes, of $12 million representing the estimated minimum probable exposure. ComEd is in negotiations with several parties to resolve the delivery service case. 2003 Agreement. On March 3, 2003, ComEd entered into an agreement with various Illinois electric retail market suppliers, key customer groups and governmental parties regarding several matters affecting ComEds rates for electric service (Agreement). The Agreement contemplates a series of coordinated filings with the ICC, which must issue orders consistent with the Agreement in order for the provisions of the Agreement to become effective. The Agreement addresses, among other things: ComEds pending residential delivery services rate proceeding New residential delivery service rates would be set based upon substantially the same as the rates currently in effect under the interim order and would remain in effect through December 31, 2006, with a possible reopener in the event that a reexamination in 2005 shows that ComEd is either under recovering or over recovering by more than 15% based on those rates. In addition, a $109 million distribution system capital expenditure disallowance that was 83 proposed in the pending proceeding by a consulting firm engaged by the ICC to audit ComEds test year expenditures, would not be reflected in the revenue requirement. Under the Agreement, distribution system plant reflected in the rate filing would be considered prudent and used and useful for purposes of this and future rate proceedings. Illinois electricity market development There would be a modification of the methodology used to determine the market value energy credit. That credit is used to determine the price for specified market based rate offerings by ComEd, and the rate for the CTC that ComEd is allowed to collect from customers who select an alternative retail electricity supplier. The credit would be adjusted upward through agreed upon "adders," which would take effect in June 2003 and would have the effect of reducing the CTC rate charged customers. The estimated annual revenue impact of the reduction in CTC revenues under the Agreement is approximately $65 million to $70 million. In addition, customers would be offered an option to lock in CTC charges for longer periods. Currently, CTC charges are subject to change annually. Competitive service declarations that assist in mitigating ComEds POLR obligations The Agreement provides for the withdrawal of certain of the outstanding appeals of the competitive declaration for service to customers having load requirements of three or more megawatts. Also, it establishes a process for achieving in June 2004 a similar competitive declaration for service to customers having load requirements of one to three megawatts. ComEds ability to enter into a full requirements PPA with Generation The parties to the Agreement would not contest extending ComEds full requirements PPA, now in place through 2004, through 2006, replacing the partial requirements service for 2005 and 2006 in the existing agreement. The parties also would not contest ComEds continued recovery of up to $73 million in nuclear decommissioning charges during 2005 and 2006, depending on the amount of energy that ComEd would purchase from Generations nuclear plants formerly owned by ComEd. Funding of certain programs for customer and governmental groups The Agreement provides for a total of $51 million in funding to various consumer groups and governmental agencies for a variety of programs from 2003 through 2006. Those programs may include energy and environmental programs, efficiency products and services, residential consumer education, market development studies and installation of emergency generating equipment. ComEd believes the Agreement assists in protecting the integrity of the CTC that it is allowed to collect from customers who choose an alternative supplier; sets a reasonable delivery service rate; provides customers and ComEd with greater price certainty and stability; enhances its relationship with regulatory, governmental and key customer groups; avoids the costs, uncertainty and time associated with litigation; and presents a proactive approach to increasing competition in the supply of electricity in Illinois. In order for the Agreement to become effective, the ICC, which is not a party to the Agreement, must enter orders consistent with the Agreement by late March 2003 in various regulatory proceedings that are the subject of the Agreement. Although the parties to the Agreement have agreed as to the general content of those orders, there are other parties to the proceedings who are seeking changes or modifications to the proposed orders or otherwise seeking to delay or prevent the effectiveness of the Agreement. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Agreement will become effective. 84 If the Agreement becomes effective, ComEd would record a charge to earnings associated with the funding of specified programs and initiatives associated with the Agreement of $49 million on a present value basis before income taxes. This amount would be partially offset by the reversal of a $12 million (before income taxes) reserve established in the third quarter of 2002 for a potential capital disallowance in ComEds delivery services rate proceeding, and a credit of $10 million (before income taxes) related to the capitalization of employee incentive payments provided for in the delivery services order. The net one time charge for these items of $27 million (before income taxes) would be recognized upon receipt of necessary ICC approvals. ComEd must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Each year increases in both customers and the demand for energy requires expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues, and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of ComEds maintenance and capital expenditures. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. ComEd must manage its costs due to the rate and equity return limitations imposed on ComEds revenues. Rate freezes in effect at ComEd currently limit the ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. As a result, ComEds future results of operations will depend on the ability of ComEd to deliver electricity in a cost efficient manner, and to realize cost reductions to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. Rate limitations. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated rate freeze on bundled retail rates that will remain effective until January 1, 2007. Equity return limitation. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated cap on its return on common equity through the end of 2006. The cap is based on a two year average of the U.S. Treasury long term rates (25 years and above) plus 8.5%, and is compared to a two year average return on ComEds common equity. The legislation requires customer refunds equal to one half of any excess earnings above the cap. ComEd is allowed to include regulatory asset amortization in the calculation of earnings. ComEd has not triggered the earnings sharing provision and currently does not expect to trigger the earnings sharing provision in the years 2003 through 2006. However, due to the historically low interest rates used in calculating the earnings cap, ComEd may be required to amortize additional regulatory assets. ComEd has and will lose energy customers to other generation service providers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of ComEd will vary because of customer choice of generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Illinois, all of ComEds retail electric customers can choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative suppliers. If customers do not choose an alternative generation supplier or take service under ComEds PPO, ComEd is currently generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in its service territory at fixed rates, or in some instances, market derived rates. In addition, customers who choose an alternative generation supplier may later return to ComEd, provided, however, that under Illinois law ComEds obligation to provide generation 85 may be eliminated over time if the ICC finds that competitive supply options are available to certain classes of customers. ComEd remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation supplier. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation provider, ComEd revenues are likely to decline. At December 31, 2002, based on sales of energy approximately 27% of ComEds small commercial and industrial (C&I) load and 61% of its large C&I load were purchasing their generation service from an alternative generation supplier or had chosen ComEds PPO, a market based price for energy. There are currently no certified alternative suppliers for the residential market in ComEds service territory. The number of customers choosing alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that ComEd is authorized to charge by the ICC. As a result of the right of customer choice of generation suppliers, ComEd anticipates that its revenues and gross margins could be variable. ComEd continues to serve as the POLR for energy for all customers in its service territory. ComEd is required to make available generation service to all retail customers in its service territory, including customers that have taken energy from an alternative generation supplier. ComEds customers can "switch," that is, they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to ComEd and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on within limits. Because customers can switch, planning has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. In order to mitigate this risk with regard to its large commercial and industrial customers, on July 19, 2002, ComEd filed a request with the ICC to revise its POLR obligation in Illinois to be the back up energy supplier to certain businesses. ComEd obtained permission from the ICC to limit the availability by June 2006 of Rate 6L for 370 of its largest energy customers. These are commercial and industrial customers, including heavy industrial plants, large office buildings, government facilities and a variety of other businesses with peak demands of at least three megawatts (MWs). ComEds request affects a total of approximately 2,500 MWs. On November 14, 2002, the ICC allowed ComEds request to go into effect as of June 2003. ComEd has no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. Presently, ComEd manages the POLR obligation through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation is required to supply all of ComEds power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd load Generation must prepare for. The uncertainty increases Generations costs. As a result, and in connection with its July 2002 ICC request, ComEd is discussing the POLR obligation issue with a number of parties including those who were parties to ComEds rate request. ComEds long term PPA provides a partial hedge to its customers demand. Because the bundled rates ComEd charges its customers are frozen for several years as mentioned previously in the "Rate limitations" section, its ability to recover increased costs with increases in rates charged to these customers is limited. Therefore, to effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, ComEd has established power supply agreements with Generation that reduce exposure to the volatility of market prices through 2006. Market prices relative to ComEds bundled rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. ComEds business may be significantly impacted by the end of the regulatory transition period in 2006. Illinois electric utilities are allowed to collect CTCs from customers who choose an alternative supplier of electric generation service or choose a utilitys PPO. CTCs were intended to assist electric utilities, such as ComEd, in recovering stranded costs that might not otherwise be recoverable in a fully 86 competitive market. The CTC charge represents the difference between the competitive price of delivered energy (the sum of generation service at competitive prices and the regulated price of energy delivery) and recoveries under historical bundled rates, reduced by a mitigation factor. The CTC charges are updated annually. Over time, to facilitate the transition to a competitive market, the mitigation factor increases, thereby reducing the CTC charge. Under current law, ComEd will no longer collect CTCs at the end of 2006. In 2001, ComEd collected $110 million of CTC revenue, while in 2002, CTC revenue collected increased to $306 million due to the change in the competitive price of delivered electricity, primarily due to lower wholesale prices and more customers choosing alternative energy suppliers or the ComEd PPO. ComEd anticipates CTC revenues to be in the range of $350 million to $400 million for 2003 based on current assumptions about the competitive price of delivered energy and customers choice of electric suppliers. Based on increasing mitigation factors, ComEd expects CTC revenues to decline in 2004 through 2006. In 2006, CTC revenues are estimated to be approximately $250 to $300 million annually. In addition, the CTC is dependent on the ICCs determination of the market price of electricity. In a proceeding before the ICC, various market participants, including alternative providers and large customers, have proposed modifications to the method for determining the market price that, if accepted, could have the effect of reducing the CTC. If the ICC issues orders making the Agreement effective, modification to the method for determining the market price of electricity would have the effect of reducing CTC revenues by an estimated $65 million to $70 million annually, effective in June 2003. Under the current restructuring statute, in 2007 this revenue will drop to zero. Through 2006, ComEd will continue to have a bundled service obligation, particularly to residential and small commercial customers. ComEds current bundled service is generally provided under an all inclusive rate that does not separately break out charges for energy generation service and energy delivery service, but charges a single set of prices. Much like the CTC collections, this revenue stream is authorized by the legislature through the transition period. After the transition ends in 2006, ComEds bundled rates may be reset through a regulatory approval process, which may include traditional or innovative pricing, including performance based incentives to ComEd. In order to address post transition uncertainty, ComEd is constantly working with Illinois state and business community leadership to facilitate the development of a competitive electricity market while providing system reliability. This is particularly important as ComEds costs to provide electricity to bundled residential and small commercial customers are capped by law at 110% of market. Transparent and liquid markets will help to minimize litigation over electricity prices and provide consumers assurance of equitable pricing. At the same time, ComEd is attempting to establish a regulatory framework for the post 2006 timeframe. To offset CTC revenue loss after 2006, ComEd is pursuing measures that would provide greater productivity, quality and innovation in the work practices across Exelon. Currently, it is difficult to predict the outcome of a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates after 2006. Management believes that no one factor will solve the 2007 challenge, but that some combination of the components currently being worked on, together with other things Exelon and ComEd will do over the next four years, will address the 2007 challenge. The ability to successfully manage the end of the transition period may affect ComEds capital structure. ComEd has approximately $4.9 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2002. This goodwill was recognized and recorded in connection with the Merger. Under GAAP, the goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an analysis of ComEds cash flows. If an impairment is determined at ComEd, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed at ComEd. Presently, ComEd has sufficient cash flows to support the recorded amount of goodwill and thus, no impairment has been recorded. For a further discussion of this subject, see the Goodwill discussion within ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting 87 Estimates above. ComEds cash flows include CTCs, which will cease at the end of 2006, unless there is a legislative or regulatory change and collections from traditional bundled customers at tariffed rates. Absent another source of revenues, to replace the loss of CTC revenue, all or a portion of the goodwill may become impaired. ComEd currently believes that there are a number of alternatives that could provide cash flows to support the goodwill. Under current regulations, a significant goodwill impairment may restrict ComEds ability to pay dividends (see the Credit Issues section within Liquidity and Capital Resources above). ComEd is pursuing various solutions to address its ability to pay dividends if a significant goodwill impairment exists. However, based on Illinois legislation, goodwill impairments are excluded from determining whether or not the earnings cap amount has been met or exceeded (see the Equity return limitation discussion within Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business above). Weather affects electricity usage and, consequently, ComEds results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter of its fiscal year. However, extreme summer conditions or storms may stress ComEds transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting ComEds ability to bring power in to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds operations. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds service territory directly affect the demand for electricity. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds service territory directly affect the demand for electricity. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their use of energy. ComEds business plan reflects an increase in output growth of 1.5% per year on a weather normalized basis. However, there is continued economic uncertainty and ComEd is currently evaluating the impact of reduced economic activity on the 2003 growth rate. Recessionary economic conditions, and the associated reduced economic activity, may adversely affect ComEds results of operations. ComEds business is affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. The electric utility industry in the United States is in transition. As a result of both legislative initiatives as well as competitive pressures, the industry has been moving from a fully regulated industry, consisting primarily of vertically integrated companies that combine generation, transmission and distribution, to a partially restructured industry, consisting of competitive wholesale generation markets and continued regulation of transmission and distribution. These developments have been somewhat uneven across the states as a result of the reaction to the problems experienced in California in 2000 and the more recently publicized problems of some energy companies. Illinois has adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. A large number of states have not changed their regulatory structures. Regional Transmission Organizations / Standard Market Design. To facilitate wholesale competition in the electric industry, FERC has required jurisdictional utilities to provide open access to their transmission systems. To foster the development of large regional wholesale markets, FERC issued Order 2000, encouraging the development of regional transmission organizations (RTOs) and the elimination of trade barriers between regions. FERC has also proposed a rulemaking to mandate a standard market design (SMD) for the wholesale markets. Order 2000 and the proposed SMD rule contemplate that the jurisdictional transmission owners in a region will turn over operating authority over their transmission facilities to an RTO or other independent entity for the purpose of providing 88 open transmission access. As a result, the independent entity will become the provider of the transmission service and the transmission owners will recover their revenue requirements through the independent entity. The transmission owners will remain responsible for maintaining and physically operating their transmission facilities. The SMD rulemaking proposal would also requirethe independent entities to operate an organized bid based wholesale market for those who wish to sell their generation through the market and to implement a financially based system for dealing with congestion on transmission lines known as "locational marginal pricing" (LMP). FERC has also issued proposals to encourage RTO development, independent control of the transmission grid and expansion of the transmission grid by providing enhanced returns on equity for transmission assets. FERC Order 2000 has not led to the rapid development of RTOs and FERC has not yet finalized its SMD proposal, due in part to substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental officials. ComEd supports both of these proposals but cannot predict whether they will be successful, what impact they may ultimately have on ComEds transmission rates, revenues and operation of ComEds transmission facilities, or whether they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. To the extent that ComEd has POLR obligations, and may at some point no longer have long term supply contracts with Generation for its load, the ability of ComEd to cost effectively serve its POLR load obligation will depend on the development of such markets. Effective management of capital projects is important to ComEds business. ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities, and in other internal infrastructure projects. ComEd continues to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. ComEd expects that its capital expenditures will continue to exceed depreciation on its plant assets. ComEds base rate freeze will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2007 (see the Rate limitations discussion within Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business above). Capital Markets / Financing Environment In order to expand ComEds operations and to meet the needs of current and future customers, ComEd invests in its business. The ability to finance ComEds business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of ComEds operations and ComEds current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of ComEds liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. The ability to grow ComEds business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. ComEds business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, ComEd secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. ComEd actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Management currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, 89 maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in ComEd and Exelon, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. ComEds credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. ComEd has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require ComEd to incur higher financing costs. Equity market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans. If the markets continue to decline, Exelon may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with Exelons overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. Please refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the benefit plan assets. ComEds results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects ComEd through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the rate freezes imposed under the legislation in Illinois and price pressures due to competition, ComEd may not be able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other ComEd may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. ComEds business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which ComEd conducts its operations and make its capital expenditures. ComEd is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by ComEd and of property contaminated by hazardous substances ComEd generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, ComEd has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one source of such costs. Also, ComEd is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, ComEds reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $101 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. ComEd has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but ComEd cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover ComEds environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether ComEd will incur other significant 90 liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by ComEd, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. ComEds financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. In connection with the events of September 11, 2001, the electric industry has developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, FERC is expected to issue minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system control. These standards are expected to be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and ComEd is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. ComEd, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Exelon is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect ComEds results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect ComEds operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect ComEds operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect ComEds revenues or restrict ComEds future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect ComEds ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition in ComEds market. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on ComEds results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 91  PECO General On October 20, 2000, PECO became a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon as a result of the transactions relating to the Merger. During January 2001, Exelon undertook a restructuring to separate its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery business. As part of the restructuring, the non regulated operations and related assets and liabilities of PECO, representing the generation and enterprises business segments, were transferred to separate subsidiaries of Exelon. As a result, beginning January 2001, the operations of PECO consist of its retail electricity distribution and transmission business in southeastern Pennsylvania and its natural gas distribution business located in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. The estimated impact of the restructuring set forth herein reflects the effects of removing the generation and enterprises operations and obtaining energy and capacity from Generation under the terms of the PPA for the year ended December 31, 2000. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends PECO 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 4,333 $ 3,965 $ 368 9.3 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power 1,669 1,352 317 23.4 % Fuel 348 450 (102 ) (22.7 %) Operating and Maintenance 523 587 (64 ) (10.9 %) Depreciation and Amortization 456 416 40 9.6 % Taxes Other Than Income 244 161 83 51.6 % Total Operating Expense 3,240 2,966 274 9.2 % OPERATING INCOME 1,093 999 94 9.4 % OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (370 ) (413 ) 43 (10.4 %) Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership which holds Solely Subordinated Debentures of the Company (10 ) (10 ) Other, Net 32 46 (14 ) (30.4 %) Total Other Income and Deductions (348 ) (377 ) 29 (7.7 %) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 745 622 123 19.8 % INCOME TAXES 259 197 62 31.5 % NET INCOME 486 425 61 14.4 % Preferred Stock Dividends (8 ) (10 ) 2 (20.0 %) NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 478 $ 415 $ 63 15.2 % 92 Net Income Net income on common stock increased $63 million, or 15%, in 2002 as compared to 2001. The increase was a result of higher sales volume, favorable rate adjustments, lower operating and maintenance expense and lower interest expense on debt partially offset by increased taxes other than income and increased depreciation and amortization expense. Operating Revenue PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Deliveries(1) Residential 10,365 8,073 2,292 28.4 % Small Commercial & Industrial 7,606 5,998 1,608 26.8 % Large Commercial & Industrial 14,766 12,960 1,806 13.9 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 852 765 87 11.4 % 33,589 27,796 5,793 20.8 % Unbundled Deliveries(2) Residential 1,971 3,105 (1,134 ) (36.5 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 415 1,606 (1,191 ) (74.2 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 557 2,352 (1,795 ) (76.3 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 7 (7 ) (100.0 %) 2,943 7,070 (4,127 ) (58.4 %) Total Retail Deliveries 36,532 34,866 1,666 4.8 % (1)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Revenue(1) Residential $ 1,338 $ 1,028 $ 310 30.2 % Small Commercial & Industrial 865 682 183 26.8 % Large Commercial & Industrial 1,086 929 157 16.9 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 79 72 7 9.7 % 3,368 2,711 657 24.2 % Unbundled Revenue(2) Residential 145 235 (90 ) (38.3 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 21 81 (60 ) (74.1 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 16 64 (48 ) (75.0 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 1 (1 ) (100.0 %) 182 381 (199 ) (52.2 %) Total Electric Retail Revenues 3,550 3,092 458 14.8 % Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 234 219 15 6.8 % Total Electric Revenue $ 3,784 $ 3,311 $ 473 14.3 % (1)Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2)Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative supplier, which include a distribution charge and a CTC charge. 93 (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer Choice $ 226 Volume 133 Weather 63 Rate Changes 45 Other Effects (9 ) Electric Retail Revenue $ 458 Customer Choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers. This choice generally does not impact kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. As of December 31, 2002, the customer load served by alternative suppliers was 1,002 MW or 12.8% as compared to 1,003 MW or 13.0% as of December 31, 2001. The percent of PECOs total retail deliveries for which PECO was electric supplier was 92.0% in 2002, compared to 79.8% in 2001. As of December 31, 2002, the number of customers served by alternative suppliers was 277,805 or 18.2% as compared to December 31, 2001 of 371,500 or 24.4%. The increases in customers and the percentage of load served by PECO primarily resulted from customers selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased PECOs revenue $133 million compared to 2001, primarily related to increases in the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Weather. The weather impact was favorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer summer weather. Cooling degree days increased 15% in 2002 compared to 2001. Heating degree days increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Rate Changes. The increase in revenues attributable to rate changes primarily reflects the expiration of a 6% reduction in PECOs electric rates during the first quarter of 2001 and a $50 million increase as a result of the increase in the gross receipts tax rate effective January 1, 2002. These increases are partially offset by the timing of a $60 million rate reduction in effect for 2001 and 2002. As permitted by the Pennsylvania Electric Act, the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue has calculated a 2002 Revenue Neutral Reconciliation (RNR) adjustment to gross receipts tax rate in order to neutralize the impact of electric restructuring on its tax revenues. In January 2002, the PUC approved the RNR adjustment to the gross receipts tax rate collected from customers. Effective January 1, 2002, PECO implemented the change in the gross receipts tax rate. The RNR adjustment increases the gross receipts tax rate, which increased both PECOs annual revenues and tax obligations by approximately $50 million in 2002. The RNR adjustment was under appeal. The case was remanded to the PUC and in August 2002, the PUC ruled that PECO is properly authorized to recover these costs. In December 2002, the PUC approved the inclusion of the RNR factor in PECOs base rates eliminating the need for an annual filing to obtain approval for recovery. Other Effects. Other items affecting revenue include an $11 million settlement of CTCs by a large customer in the first quarter of 2001. 94 PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: 2002 2001 Variance Deliveries in millions of cubic feet (mmcf) 85,545 81,528 4,017 Revenue $ 549 $ 654 $ (105 ) The changes in gas revenue for 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate Changes $ (108 ) Weather 2 Volume 1 Gas Revenue $ (105 ) Rate Changes. The unfavorable variance in rates is attributable to an adjustment of the purchased gas cost recovery by the PUC in December 2001. The average rate per million cubic feet for 2002 was 20% lower than in 2001. PECOs gas rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC and are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in base rates and to recover or refund increases or decreases in certain state taxes not recovered in base rates. Effective December 1, 2002, the PUC approved a reduction in the purchased gas adjustment of 4.5%. Weather. The weather impact was favorable, as a result of colder weather in 2002, as compared to 2001. Heating degree days in PECOs service territory increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased revenue by $1 million in 2002 compared to 2001. Total deliveries to customers increased 5% in 2002 compared to 2001, primarily as a result of customer growth and higher transportation volumes Purchased Power Purchased power expense in 2002 increased $317 million as compared to 2001. The increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to $210 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier, higher PJM ancillary charges of $41 million, $38 million from higher delivery volume primarily related to electric sales and $28 million as a result of favorable weather conditions. Fuel Fuel expense in 2002 decreased $102 million as compared to 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to a $108 million decrease from lower gas prices. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense in 2002 decreased $64 million, or 11%, as compared to 2001. The decrease in O&M expense was primarily attributable to a $23 million reduction in the allowance for the uncollectible accounts during 2002, and $6 million related to lower corporate allocations. The decrease is also attributable to $18 million of employee severance costs associated with the Merger, $12 million of incremental costs related to two storms, $7 million attributable to customer choice and $5 million associated with a write off of excess and obsolete inventory, all of which occurred in 2001. These decreases are partially offset by $12 million related to additional costs associated with the deployment of automated meter reading technology during 2002. 95 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense in 2002 increased $40 million, or 10%, as compared to 2001 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Competitive Transition Charge Amortization $ 308 $ 271 $ 37 13.7 % Depreciation Expense 125 119 6 5.0 % Other Amortization Expense 23 26 (3 ) (11.5 %) Total Depreciation and Amortization $ 456 $ 416 $ 40 9.6 % The increase was primarily attributable to $37 million of additional amortization of PECOs CTC and an increase of $6 million related to depreciation expense associated with additional plant in service. The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income in 2002 increased $83 million, or 52%, as compared to 2001. The increase was primarily attributable to $72 million of additional gross receipts tax related to additional revenues and an increase in the gross receipts tax rate on electric revenue effective January 1, 2002. The increase was also attributable to $15 million related to an additional assessment of real estate taxes in 2002. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $4 million for state sales and use tax in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership (COMRPS). Interest charges decreased $43 million, or 10%, in 2002 as compared to 2001. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower interest expense on long term debt of $35 million as a result of less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates, and $8 million in interest expense on a loan from ComEd in 2001. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions excluding interest charges decreased $14 million, or 30%, in, 2002 as compared to 2001. The decrease in other income and deductions was primarily attributable to intercompany interest income of $10 million, a gain on the settlement of an interest rate swap of $6 million and the favorable settlement of a customer contract of $3 million, all of which occurred in 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 34.8% in 2002 as compared to 31.7% in 2001. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to an unfavorable tax adjustments recorded in 2002. Preferred Stock Dividends Preferred stock dividends in 2002 were consistent as compared to 2001. 96 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2000 Summary Financial Information PECO Components of Variance 2001 2000 Restructuring Impact Normal Operations Total OPERATING REVENUES $ 3,965 $ 5,950 $ (2,577 ) $ 592 $ (1,985 ) Purchased Power and Fuel 1,802 2,127 (793 ) 468 (325 ) Operating and Maintenance 587 1,791 (1,299 ) 95 (1,204 ) Merger Related Costs 248 (181 ) (67 ) (248 ) Depreciation and Amortization 416 325 (142 ) 233 91 Taxes Other Than Income 161 237 (71 ) (5 ) (76 ) Total Operating Expenses 2,966 4,728 (2,486 ) 724 (1,762 ) OPERATING INCOME 999 1,222 (91 ) (132 ) (223 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (413 ) (463 ) 48 2 50 Distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership, which holds Solely Subordinated Debentures of the Company (10 ) (8 ) (2 ) (2 ) Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net (41 ) 41 41 Other, Net 46 41 (19 ) 24 5 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 622 751 (21 ) (108 ) (129 ) INCOME TAXES 197 268 26 (97 ) (71 ) NET INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 425 483 (47 ) (11 ) (58 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE (net of income taxes) 24 (24 ) (24 ) NET INCOME 425 507 (71 ) (11 ) (82 ) PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS (10 ) (10 ) NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 415 $ 497 $ (71 ) $ (11 ) $ (82 ) Net Income Net income from normal operations decreased $11 million, or 3% in 2001 as compared to 2000. PECOs results from normal operations improved as a result of lower margins due to the unplanned return of certain commercial and industrial customers, milder weather, increased depreciation and amortization expense and higher interest expense partially offset by favorable rate adjustments. 97 Operating Revenues PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2001 2000 Variance % Change Bundled Deliveries(1) Residential 8,073 9,325 (1,252 ) (13.4 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 5,998 3,918 2,080 53.1 % Large Commercial & Industrial 12,960 8,292 4,668 56.3 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 765 479 286 59.7 % 27,796 22,014 5,782 26.3 % Unbundled Deliveries(2) Residential 3,105 1,986 1,119 56.3 % Small Commercial & Industrial 1,606 3,550 (1,944 ) (54.8 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 2,352 7,404 (5,052 ) (68.2 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 7 301 (294 ) (97.7 %) 7,070 13,241 (6,171 ) (46.6 %) Total Retail Deliveries 34,866 35,255 (389 ) (1.1 %) (1)Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2)Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. Electric Revenue 2001 2000 Variance % Change Bundled Revenue(1) Residential $ 1,028 $ 1,113 $ (85 ) (7.6 %) Small Commercial & Industrial 682 422 260 61.6 % Large Commercial & Industrial 929 532 397 74.6 % Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 72 47 25 53.2 % 2,711 2,114 597 28.2 % Unbundled Revenue(2) Residential 235 135 100 74.1 % Small Commercial & Industrial 81 154 (73 ) (47.4 %) Large Commercial & Industrial 64 180 (116 ) (64.4 %) Public Authorities & Electric Railroads 1 11 (10 ) (90.9 %) 381 480 (99 ) (20.6 %) Total Electric Retail Revenues 3,092 2,594 498 19.2 % Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenue(3) 219 247 (28 ) (11.3 %) Total Electric Revenue $ 3,311 $ 2,841 $ 470 16.5 % (1)Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2)Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative energy supplier, which include a distribution charge and a CTC charge. 98 (3)Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues for 2001, as compared to 2000, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer Choice $ 276 Rate Changes 241 Weather (5 ) Other Effects (14 ) Retail Revenue $ 498 Customer Choice. All PECO customers had the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers throughout 2001. This choice generally does not impact kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. Customers who are served by an alternative supplier continue to pay CTCs. As of December 31, 2001, the customer load served by alternative suppliers was 1,003 MWs or 13.0% as compared to the same prior year period of 2,631 MWs or 34.9%. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the percent of load sold by PECO increased by 17.2% to 79.8% of total retail deliveries as compared to 62.6% in 2000. This reduction in the customers and the percentage of load served by alternative suppliers, primarily resulted from small and large commercial and industrial customers selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier. As of December 31, 2001, the number of customers served by alternative suppliers was 371,500 or 24.4% as compared to December 31, 2000 of 269,395 or 18.0%. The increase from the prior year is primarily a result of the CDS agreements for residential customers with the New Power and Green Mountain. As of December 31, 2001, there were 227,349 residential customers assigned to these generation providers as part of the agreement. Rate Changes. The increase in revenues attributable to rate changes reflects the expiration of a 6% reduction in PECOs electric rates in effect for 2000, partially offset by a $60 million rate reduction in effect for 2001. Weather. The weather impact was unfavorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer winter weather partially offset by warmer summer weather. Cooling degree days increased 34% in 2001 compared to 2000 while heating degree days decreased 12% in 2001 compared to 2000. Other Effects. Other items affecting revenue during 2001 include: Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, lower delivery volume affected PECOs revenue by $21 million compared to 2000 primarily related to increases in the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Other. The payment of $29 million to Generation related to nuclear decommissioning cost recovery under an agreement effective September 2001 partially offset by an $11 million settlement of CTCs by a large customer in the first quarter of 2001. PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: 2001 2000 Variance Deliveries in mmcf 81,528 91,686 (10,158 ) Revenue $ 654 $ 532 $ 122 99 The changes in gas revenue for 2001, as compared to 2000, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate Changes $ 174 Weather (38 ) Volume (14 ) Gas Revenue $ 122 Rate Changes. The favorable variance in price is attributable to an adjustment of the purchased gas cost recovery by the PUC effective in December 2000. The average price per million cubic feet for all customers for 2001 was 38% higher than in 2000. Weather. The unfavorable weather impact is attributable to warmer winter weather conditions. Heating degree days decreased 12% in 2001 compared to 2000. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, lower delivery volume affected revenue by $14 million compared to 2000. Total volume of sales to retail customers decreased 11% compared to 2000, primarily as a result of slower economic conditions in 2001 offset by customer growth. Purchased Power and Fuel Purchased power and fuel expense for 2001 increased $468 million, or 35%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense was primarily attributable to $293 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier, $174 million from increased prices related to gas and higher PJM ancillary charges of $31 million. These increases were partially offset by $24 million as a result of unfavorable weather conditions and $14 million attributable to lower delivery volume related to gas. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense for 2001 increased $95 million, or 19%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase in O&M expense was primarily attributable to $20 million related to an increased allocation of corporate expense, $18 million related to additional employee severance costs in 2001 associated with the Merger, $17 million as a result of higher administrative and general costs for functions previously performed at Corporate, $14 million related to the deployment of automated meter reading technology during 2001, $12 million of incremental costs related to two storms in 2001, $9 million related to additional uncollectible accounts expense and $5 million associated with the write off of excess and obsolete inventory. Merger Related Costs Merger related costs charged to income in 2000 were $248 million consisting of $132 million of direct incremental costs and $116 million for employee costs. Direct incremental costs represent expenses associated with completing the Merger, including professional fees, regulatory approval and settlement costs, and settlement of compensation arrangements. Employee costs represent estimated severance payments and pension and postretirement benefits provided under Exelons merger separation plan for 642 eligible PECO employees who were expected to be involuntarily terminated before December 2002 upon completion of integration activities for the merged companies. Merger related costs attributable to the operations transferred to Generation, Enterprises and BSC in the corporate restructuring were $181 million. The remaining $67 million is attributable to PECOs energy delivery segment. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 100 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense for 2001 increased $233 million, or 127%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase was primarily attributable to $214 million of additional amortization of PECOs CTC and an increase of $19 million related to depreciation expense associated with additional plant in service. The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income for 2001 decreased $5 million, or 3%, as compared to the same 2000 period, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The decrease was primarily attributable to the elimination of the gross receipts tax on gas sales effective July 1, 2000. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on COMRPS. Interest charges for 2001 were consistent as compared to 2000. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates As part of the corporate restructuring, PECOs unconsolidated affiliates were transferred to Generation and Enterprises. Other Income and Deductions Other income and deductions excluding interest charges and equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates increased $24 million, or 109% in 2001 as compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the restructuring. The increase in other income and deductions was primarily attributable to intercompany interest income of $10 million in the third quarter of 2001, a gain on the settlement of an interest rate swap of $6 million and the favorable settlement of a customer contract of $3 million. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 31.7% in 2001 as compared to 35.7% in 2000. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to tax benefits associated with the implementation of state tax planning strategies, the reduced impact of investment tax credit amortization and other tax adjustments recorded in 2001. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle In 2000, PECO recorded a benefit of $40 million ($24 million, net of tax) representing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting method for nuclear outage costs in conjunction with the synchronization of accounting policies in connection with the Merger. Preferred Stock Dividends Preferred stock dividends for 2001 were consistent as compared to 2000. 101  Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing including the issuance of commercial paper. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt and payment of dividends. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations in 2002 were $880 million compared to $938 million in 2001. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities was primarily attributable to a $79 million decrease in other operating activities primarily a result of the change in pension obligation, a $26 million decrease in working capital, a $26 million decrease in deferred income taxes and a $23 million decrease in the provision for uncollectible accounts, partially offset by a $61 million increase in net income and a $37 million increase in CTC amortization. PECOs cash flow from operating activities primarily results from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices. PECOs future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve operating cost reductions, and the impact of the economy, weather and customer choice on its revenues. Although the amounts may vary from period to period as a result of the uncertainties inherent in its business, PECO expects that it will continue to provide a reliable and steady source of internal cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. PECO participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however Exelon made a $150 million discretionary plan contribution in 2002, none of which was funded by PECO. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary plan contribution of $300 million to $350 million in 2003. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities in 2002 were $252 million compared to $241 million in 2001. The increase in cash flows used in investing activities was primarily attributable to an increase in capital expenditures. PECOs investing activities during 2002 were funded primarily by operating activities. PECOs projected capital expenditures for 2003 are $270 million. Approximately one half of the budgeted 2003 expenditures are for capital additions to support customer and load growth and the remainder for additions and upgrades to existing facilities. PECO anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2002 were $597 million compared to $683 million in 2001. Cash flows used in financing activities are primarily attributable to debt service and payment of dividends to Exelon. In 2002, PECO issued $225 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds. The proceeds of these bonds were used to repay commercial paper that PECO used to pay $222 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds at maturity. Also in 2002, PECO made principal payments of $326 million on transition bonds and had net issuances of $200 million of commercial paper. PECO paid a $340 million dividend to Exelon during 2002 compared to a $342 million dividend in 2001. 102 Credit Issues PECO meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. PECO, along with Exelon, ComEd and Generation, participates in a $1.5 billion unsecured 364 day revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The credit facility became effective November 22, 2002 and includes a term out option that allows any outstanding borrowings at the end of the revolving credit period to be repaid on November 21, 2004. Exelon may increase or decrease the sublimits of each of the participants upon written notification to the banks. As of December 31, 2002, PECOs sublimit was $400 million. The credit facility is used by PECO principally to support its commercial paper program. At December 31, 2002, PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects $200 million in commercial paper outstanding. For 2002, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.51%. Certain of the credit agreements to which PECO is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. PECOs threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, PECO was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. At December 31, 2002, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.8 billion receivable from Exelon, consisted of 28% common stock, 2% notes payable, 3% preferred securities and COMRPS, and 67% long term debt. Long term debt included $4.3 billion of transition bonds issued by PECO Energy Transition Trust representing 50% of capitalization. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany utility money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether such funding results in mutual economic benefits to each of the participants, although Exelon is not permitted to be a net borrower from the money pool. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. There were no material money pool transactions in 2002. PECOs access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. None of PECOs borrowings are subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows PECOs securities ratings at December 31, 2002: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings PECO Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Under PUHCA, PECO is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon and can pay dividends only from retained or current earnings. At December 31, 2002, PECO had retained earnings of $401 million. 103 Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations PECOs contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 5,644 $ 689 $ 883 $ 1,141 $ 2,931 Notes Payable 200 200 COMRPS 128 128 Operating Leases 20 5 7 5 3 Total Contractual Obligations $ 5,992 $ 894 $ 890 $ 1,146 $ 3,062 See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt see Note 11 notes payable see Note 10 COMRPS see Note 15 operating leases see Note 18 PECOs commercial commitments as of December 31, 2002 representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, including obligations to make payment on behalf of other parties as well as financing arrangements to secure obligations of PECO, are as follows: Expiration within After 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Credit Facility(a) $ 400 $ 400 $ $ $ Letters of Credit (non debt)(b) 29 29 Letter of Credit (Long term Debt)(c) 17 17 Insured Long Term Debt(d) 154 154 Surety Bonds(e) 46 46 Total Commercial Commitments $ 646 $ 492 $ $ $ 154 (a)Credit Facility PECO, along with Exelon, ComEd and Generation, maintain a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility to support commercial paper issuances. PECO has a $400 million sublimit under the credit facility. At December 31, 2002, there are no borrowings against the credit facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, PECO had $200 million in outstanding commercial paper. (b)Letters of Credit (non debt) PECO and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (c)Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt) Direct pay letters of credit issued in connection with variable rate debt in order to provide liquidity in the event that it is not possible to remarket all of the debt as required following specific events, including changes in the basis of determining the interest rate on the debt. (d)Insured Long Term Debt Borrowings that have been credit enhanced through the purchase of insurance coverage equal to the amount of principal outstanding plus interest. 104 (e)Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial surety bonds, excluding bid bonds. Off Balance Sheet Obligations PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2005. PECO entered into this agreement to diversify its funding sources at favorable floating interest rates. At December 31, 2002, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $164 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125," and a $61 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable which was accounted for as a long term note payable. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for these receivables. The Agreement requires PECO to maintain the $225 million interest, which, if not met, requires cash, which would otherwise be received by PECO under this program, to be held in escrow until the requirement is met. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PECO met this requirement. Critical Accounting Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business PECO faces a number of challenges in achieving its vision and keeping its commitments to its customers and investors. These challenges that will affect how PECO manages its business are described below. PECO must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing its business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. PECO is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. PECO is regulated by the PUC, which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between PECO and its affiliates. PECO is also subject to regulation by FERC, which regulates transmission rates, certain other aspects of its business and gas pipelines. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which PECO does business, its ability to undertake specified actions and the costs of its operations. PECO is involved in a number of regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of PECOs costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, PECO looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grant some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. 105 PECO must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Each year, increases in both customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues, and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. PECO must manage its costs due to the rate caps imposed on PECO. Rate caps in effect at PECO currently limit PECOs ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. PECO is subject to agreed upon rate reductions of $200 million, in aggregate, for the period 2002 through 2005 and caps (subject to limited exceptions for significant increases in Federal or state income taxes or other significant changes in law or regulation that do not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return) on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 as a result of settlements previously reached with the PUC. As a result, PECOs future results of operations will depend on the ability of PECO to deliver electricity and natural gas, in a cost efficient manner, and to realize cost reductions to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. PECO has lost and will lose energy customers to other generation service providers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of PECO will vary because of customer choice of generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Pennsylvania, all of PECOs retail electric customers can choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative suppliers. If customers do not choose an alternative generation supplier PECO, is currently generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in its service territory at fixed rates. In addition, customers who choose an alternative generation supplier may later return to PECO. PECO remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation supplier. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation provider, PECOs revenues are likely to decline. At December 31, 2002, approximately 10% of PECOs small C&I load, 7% of its large C&I load and 21% of its residential load were purchasing their generation service from an alternative electric generation supplier. PECOs Electric Restructuring Settlement established MST for residential and commercial customers such that if, on January 1, 2003, 50% of PECOs residential and commercial customers (by number of customers for residential and small commercial classes, and by load for large commercial classes) are not obtaining generation service from alternative generation suppliers, then non shopping customers, up to the MSTs level, will be randomly assigned to alternative generation suppliers. The assigned customers have the right, at any time, to return to PECO or to switch to another supplier. The number of customers choosing alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that PECO is authorized to charge by the PUC. 106 PECO continues to serve as the POLR for energy for all customers in its service territory. PECO is required to make available generation service to all retail customers in its service territory, including customers that have taken energy from an alternative generation supplier. PECO customers can "switch," that is, they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to PECO and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on, within limits. Because customers can switch, planning for PECO has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. Presently, PECO manages the POLR obligation through a full requirements contract with Generation, under which Generation supplies PECOs power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of PECO load that Generation must prepare for. PECOs long term PPA provides a hedge to its customers demand. Because the bundled rates PECO charges its customers are capped through 2010, as mentioned previously in the "Rate limitations" section, its ability to recover increased costs with increases in rates charged to these customers is limited. Therefore, to effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, PECO has established power supply agreements with Generation that reduce exposure to the volatility of market prices through 2010. Market prices relative to PECOs bundled rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. PECOs business may be significantly impacted by the end of the PECO regulatory transition period in 2010. In Pennsylvania, as a mechanism for utilities to recover their allowed stranded costs, the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act) provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customers bills. CTCs are assessed to and collected from all customers who have been assigned stranded cost responsibility and access the utilities transmission and distribution systems. As the CTCs are based on access to the utilitys transmission and distribution system, they are assessed regardless of whether such customer purchases electricity from the utility or an alternative electric generation supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that the utilitys right to collect CTCs is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs are being recovered, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. PECO has been authorized by the PUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion ($4.6 billion of unamortized costs at December 31, 2002) over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. PECOs recovery of stranded costs is based on the level of transition charges established in the settlement of PECOs restructuring case and the projected annual retail sales in PECOs service territory. Recovery of transition charges for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. In 2002, revenue attributable to stranded cost recovery was $850 million and is scheduled to increase to $932 million by 2010, the final year of stranded cost recovery. Amortization of PECOs stranded cost recovery, which is a regulatory asset, is included in depreciation and amortization. The amortization expense for 2002 was $308 million and will increase to $879 million by 2010. Thus, PECOs results will be adversely affected over the remaining period ending December 31, 2010 by the reduction in the unamortized balance of stranded costs and therefore the return received on that unamortized balance. Weather affects electricity and gas usage and, consequently, PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing 107 differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, PECO typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter. Extreme summer conditions or storms may stress PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting its ability to bring power in to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on PECOs operations. Economic conditions and activity in PECOs service territory directly affect the demand for electricity. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their use of energy. Sales growth on an annual basis is expected to be 0.6% in PECOs service territory. In the long term, output growth for electricity is expected to be 0.6% per year. However, there is continued economic uncertainty. Recessionary economic conditions, and the associated reduced economic activity, may adversely affect PECOs results of operations. Effective management of capital projects is important to PECOs business. PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities, and in other internal infrastructure projects. PECO continues to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. PECOs base rate caps will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any of these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2011 (see the section titled "PECO must manage its costs due to the rate caps imposed on PECO" above). Capital Markets / Financing Environment In order to expand PECOs operations and to meet the needs of its current and future customers, PECO invests in its business. PECOs ability to finance its business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of its operations and PECOs current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of PECOs liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. PECOs ability to grow its business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. PECOs business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, PECO secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. PECO actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. PECO currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund its operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the need arises. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in PECO and Exelon, general economic and capital market conditions and the success of current projects. 108 PECOs credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. PECO has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require PECO to incur higher financing costs. Equity market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans. If the markets continue to decline, PECO may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with its overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. Please refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the benefit plan assets. PECOs results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects PECO through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the rate caps imposed under the legislation in Pennsylvania, PECO is not able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other PECO may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. PECOs business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which PECO conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. PECO is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by PECO and of property contaminated by hazardous substances PECO generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, PECO has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations will be one source of such costs. Also, PECO is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, PECOs reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $40 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. PECO has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but PECO cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover PECOs environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether PECO will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by PECO, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. PECOs financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. In connection with the events of September 11, 2001, the electric and gas industries have developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, FERC issued minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system 109 control. These standards will be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. The gas industry, through the American Gas Association, developed physical security guidelines that were accepted by the U.S. Department of Transportation. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and PECO is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. PECO, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Exelon is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect PECOs results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect PECOs operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect PECOs operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect PECOs revenues or restrict PECOs future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect PECOs ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within PECOs markets. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse affect on PECOs results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 110  Generation General On October 20, 2000, Exelon became the parent corporation for PECO and ComEd as a result of the completion of the transactions related to the Merger. Generation has included the ComEds generation related results of operations in its consolidated financial statements beginning October 20, 2000. The estimated impact of the Merger set forth herein reflects the effects ComEds generation related results of operations prior to October 20, 2000. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends Generation 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 32 0.5 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power 3,294 3,106 188 6.1 % Fuel 959 889 70 7.9 % Operating and Maintenance 1,656 1,528 128 8.4 % Depreciation 276 282 (6 ) (2.1 )% Taxes Other Than Income 164 149 15 10.1 % Total Operating Expense 6,349 5,954 395 6.6 % OPERATING INCOME 509 872 (363 ) (41.6 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest Expense (75 ) (115 ) 40 34.8 % Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net 87 90 (3 ) (3.3 )% Other, Net 83 (8 ) 91 n.m. Total Other Income and Deductions 95 (33 ) 128 n.m. INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 604 839 (235 ) (28.0 )% INCOME TAXES 217 327 (110 ) (33.6 )% INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 387 512 (125 ) (24.4 )% CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES, (net of income taxes) 13 12 1 8.3 % NET INCOME $ 400 $ 524 $ (124 ) (23.7 )% Net Income Generations net income decreased by $124 million, or 24% in 2002. Net income was adversely impacted by a lower margin on wholesale energy sales due to depressed market prices for energy, a reduced supply of low cost nuclear generation, and increased operating and maintenance expense. The decrease was partially offset by increased revenue from the acquisition of two generating plants in April 2002, increased investment income, decreased depreciation expense and decreased interest expense. 111 Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased $32 million, or 1% in 2002. Sales to affiliates increased by $124 million. This increase was attributable to weather related increased deliveries to PECO and ComEd. Revenue from marketing and trading decreased by $143 million, which was due to lower market prices on sales and losses sustained from proprietary trading activity. Market sales were negatively impacted by lower average market sales prices of $6.25/MWh. Excluding the benefit of $99 million of margin associated with the Texas plants acquisition, average market prices realized for the year ended December 31, 2002 were $7.44/MWh lower than the same 2001 period. The effect of the lower sales prices were partially offset by increased market sales volumes. Trading margin decreased $36 million, reflecting a $29 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to a $7 million gain in the same 2001 period. Purchased Power Purchased power expense increased $188 million, or 6% in 2002. This increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a 15.8% increase in purchased power volume. This was partially offset by average purchased power cost decreasing by $4.11/MWh for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to the same 2001 period. This decrease in average purchased power cost was principally attributed to lower realized wholesale market prices realized and reduced transmission costs. Fuel Fuel expense increased $70 million in 2002. The increase was principally attributed to increased fossil fuel purchases related to new plant acquisitions in Texas and New England, as well as increased peaking production due to summer demand. Operating Statistics For the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, Generations sales and the supply of these sales, excluding the trading portfolio, were as follows: Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Energy Delivery 118,473 116,917 1.3 % Exelon Energy 5,502 6,876 (20.0 )% Market Sales 83,565 72,333 15.5 % Total Sales 207,540 196,126 5.8 % Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Nuclear Generation (1) 115,854 116,839 (0.8 )% Purchases non trading portfolio (2) 78,710 67,942 15.8 % Fossil and Hydro Generation 12,976 11,345 14.4 % Total Supply 207,540 196,126 5.8 % (1)Excluding AmerGen. (2)Including PPAs with AmerGen. 112 Trading volume of 69,933 GWhs and 5,754 GWhs for the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, is not included in the table above. Generations average revenue, supply cost, and margin on energy sales for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2002 2001 % Change Average Revenue Energy Delivery $ 33.48 $ 32.55 2.9 % Exelon Energy 44.87 41.53 8.0 % Market Sales 30.75 37.00 (16.9 )% Total excluding the trading portfolio 32.68 34.51 (5.3 )% Average Supply Cost (1) excluding trading portfolio $ 20.14 $ 20.26 (0.6 )% Average Margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 12.54 $ 14.25 (12.0 )% (1)Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs. 2002 2001 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (1) 92.7 % 94.4 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh $ 13.00 $ 12.78 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 41.83 $ 45.94 (1)Including AmerGen and excluding Salem. Operating and Maintenance O&M expense increased $128 million, or 9%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to the same period in 2001. The increase was due to the additional O&M expense of $80 million arising from an increased number of nuclear plant refueling outages during 2002 compared to 2001. Also, O&M expense increased $21 million due to plants acquired in 2002, as well as additional allocated corporate costs, including executive severance. These additional expenses were partially offset by other operating cost reductions, including $8 million related to fewer employees, a $10 million reduction in Generations severance accrual and other cost reductions from Exelons Cost Management Initiative. The severance reduction represents a reversal of costs previously charged to operating expense. Depreciation Depreciation expense decreased $6 million, or 2%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to 2001. This decrease is due to a $42 million reduction in depreciation expense arising from the extension of the useful lives on certain generation facilities in 2001, partially offset by $32 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service, including the Southeast Chicago Energy Project in July 2002, and two generating plants acquired in April 2002. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased $15 million, or 10%, for the year ended December 31, 2002 compared to the same period in 2001 due primarily to an $8 million increase in property taxes. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $40 million, or 35%, for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to the same period in 2001. The decrease is due to $19 million of lower interest related to a lower interest rate on the spent nuclear fuel obligation, and $33 million of lower affiliate interest expense. This decrease was partially offset by a $21 million increase in interest expense due to newly acquired long term debt. 113 Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased $3 million, or 3%, in 2002 compared to 2001. This decrease was due to a $5 million decrease in Generations equity earnings in AmerGen, primarily due to an increase in pension, medical, and incentive cost, partially offset by an increase in revenue. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $2 million in Generations equity earnings in Sithe. Other, Net Other, Net increased $91 million in 2002, compared to 2001. The increase was primarily due to a $103 million increase in decommissioning trust fund investment income, partially offset by a $6 million decrease in affiliate interest income, and a $6 million decrease due to losses on the disposal and retirement of Generation assets. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 35.9% for 2002 compared to 39.0% for 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to tax exempt interest deductions in 2002 and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2002, Generation adopted SFAS No. 141 resulting in a benefit of $13 million (net of income taxes of $9 million). On January 1, 2001, Generation adopted SFAS No. 133, as amended, resulting in a benefit of $12 million (net of income taxes of $7 million). Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 The October 20, 2000 merger of PECO and Unicom, and the January 1, 2001 corporate restructuring, significantly impacted Generations results of operations. To provide a more meaningful analysis of results of operations, the financial analysis below identifies the portion of the components of net income variance that is attributable to the former ComEd generation business unit results of operations and the portion of the variance that results from normal operations attributable to changes in Generations underlying operations. The merger variance represents the former ComEd generation business unit results for the year ended December 31, 2000 prior to the October 20, 2000 acquisition date as well as the effect of merger related costs incurred in 2000. The 2000 effects of the merger and 114 restructuring were developed using estimates of various items, including allocation of corporate overheads and intercompany transactions. Components of Variance Generation 2001 2000 Variance Merger Variance Normal Operations OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,826 $ 3,274 $ 3,552 $ 2,772 $ 780 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased Power and Fuel 3,995 1,846 2,149 1,690 459 Operating & Maintenance 1,528 800 728 868 (140 ) Depreciation 282 123 159 83 76 Taxes Other Than Income 149 64 85 108 (23 ) Total Operating Expenses 5,954 2,833 3,121 2,749 372 OPERATING INCOME 872 441 431 23 408 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (115 ) (41 ) (74 ) (33 ) (41 ) Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net 90 4 86 86 Other, Net (8 ) 16 (24 ) (24 ) Total Other Income and Deductions (33 ) (21 ) (12 ) (33 ) 21 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECTS OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 839 420 419 (10 ) 429 INCOME TAXES 327 160 167 (9 ) 176 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECTS OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 512 260 252 (1 ) 253 CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (net of income taxes) 12 12 12 NET INCOME $ 524 $ 260 $ 264 $ (1 ) $ 265 Net Income Generations net income increased $265 million for 2001, compared to 2000 excluding the effects of the Merger. This increase was primarily attributable to higher margins on increased market and affiliate wholesale energy sales, coupled with reduced operating expenses at the nuclear plants, partially offset by additional depreciation and decommissioning expense. Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased $780 million for 2001, compared to 2000 excluding the effects of the Merger. Operating revenue increased due to higher market prices for energy. The increase in wholesale market prices, particularly in the PJM and MAIN regions, was conversely affected by higher fossil fuel prices. In addition, 2001 energy marketing activity resulted in mark to market gains of $16 million on non trading contracts, and $14 million on trading contracts. This was partially offset by $6 million in realized trading losses. Purchased Power and Fuel Purchased power and fuel costs increased $459 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. This increase was due to increased fuel prices in the first quarter of 2001 115 compared to the same period in the prior year. Also, Generation experienced an increase in volume sold during the peak demand season in 2001 compared to 2000. Operating and Maintenance O&M expenses decreased $140 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. O&M expenses were favorably affected by reductions in labor costs due to a decline in the number of employees and fewer nuclear outages in 2001 than in 2000, which offset the effect of increases in litigation related expenses of $30 million. Depreciation Depreciation expense increased $76 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. The increase in depreciation expense was primarily due to an increase in decommissioning expense of $140 million resulting from the discontinuance of regulatory accounting practices associated with decommissioning costs for the former ComEd operating nuclear generating stations, partially offset by a $90 million reduction in depreciation and decommissioning expense attributable to the extension of estimated service lives of generating plants. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income taxes decreased $23 million for 2001, compared to 2000. Taxes other than income taxes decreased as a result of a reduction in payroll taxes due to a decline in the number of employees and a reduction in property taxes due to property value reassessments. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $41 million for 2001, compared to 2000, excluding the effects of the Merger. This increase was primarily attributable to increased interest charges of $23 million on the note payable to Exelon, interest charges of $26 million due to the issuance of $700 million of 6.95% senior unsecured notes in a 144A offering in June 2001, $23 million of additional interest due to a full year of interest charges on the spent fuel obligation compared to only two months in 2000 for the former ComEd generating stations, and $15 million of interest charges from affiliates. These increases were partially offset by capitalized interest of approximately $17 million. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $86 million for 2001, compared to 2000. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased primarily due to additional earnings of AmerGen and Sithe of $86 million in 2001 reflecting a full year of operations for Sithe and AmerGens Oyster Creek plant in 2001. Other, Net Other, Net decreased $24 million for 2001, compared to 2000. Investment income decreased by $29 million due to net realized losses of $127 million partially offset by interest and dividend income of $67 million on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds reflecting the discontinuance of regulatory accounting practices associated with nuclear decommissioning costs for the nuclear stations formerly owned by ComEd. The decrease in investment income was also offset by increased income of $31 million due to money market interest and interest on the loan to Sithe recorded in 2001. 116 Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.0% for 2001 as compared to 38.1% for 2000. The increase in the effective income tax rate was primarily attributable to a higher effective state income tax rate due to operations in Illinois subsequent to the merger and a reduction in investment tax credit amortization. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2001, Generation adopted SFAS No. 133, resulting in a benefit of $12 million (net of income taxes of $7 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financings including the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, investments in new and existing ventures, repayments of maturing debt and the payment of dividends. Any future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations were $1,138 million in 2002, compared to $1,274 million in 2001. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities is primarily due to a $124 million decrease in net income, and a $197 million decrease in cash flow related to working capital. This decrease is partially offset by a $185 million increase in cash flows related to other operating activities not included in working capital. Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including Generations affiliated companies, as well as settlements arising from Generations trading activities. Generations future cash flow from operating activities will depend upon future demand and market prices for energy and the ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Generation participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon made a discretionary plan contribution in 2002 of $150 million, of which $60 million was funded by Generation. Exelon also expects to make a discretionary plan contribution in 2003 of $300 million to $350 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,674 million in 2002, compared to $1,043 million in 2001. Capital expenditures, including investment in nuclear fuel, were $990 million in 2002. In addition to the 2002 capital expenditures, Generation purchased two natural gas and oil fired generating plants from TXU on April 25, 2002. The $443 million purchase was funded with commercial paper, which Exelon issued and Generation is repaying from cash flows from operations. The balance of Generations short term borrowings at December 31, 2002 attributable to the plants purchased from TXU, was approximately $70 million. Investing activities also included a $2 million use of cash for the November 1, 2002 purchase of the Sithe New England assets. The $2 million use is net of $12 million of cash acquired. The remainder of the purchase was financed with a $534 million note issued to Sithe. 117 In February 2002, Generation entered into an agreement to loan AmerGen up to $75 million at an interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 2.25%. In July 2002, the loan agreement and the loan were increased to $100 million and the maturity date was extended to July 1, 2003. As of December 31, 2002, the balance of the loan to AmerGen was $35 million. Generation has agreed to make capital contributions to AmerGen of 50% of the purchase price of any acquisitions that AmerGen makes. Generations capital expenditures are expected to be funded by internally generated funds, Generations borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by financing activities were $370 million in 2002, compared to cash used of $11 million in 2001. During 2002, Generation obtained a $348 million loan from Exelon, which included $331 million for the acquisition of two generating plants. The prior year amount represented net distributions of $136 million to Exelon and the issuance of long term debt of $821 million. Also, in 2001, Generation repaid $696 million it had borrowed from Exelon related to the acquisition of a 49.9% interest in Sithe. Financing activities in 2002 exclude the non cash issuance of a $534 million note issued to Sithe for the November 1, 2002 acquisition of the Sithe New England assets and approximately $1.0 billion of Sithe New England long term debt, which is reflected in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002. Credit Issues Generation meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through intercompany borrowings from Exelon and the issuance of commercial paper. Generation, along with Exelon, ComEd and PECO, participates in a $1.5 billion unsecured 364 day revolving credit facility with a group of banks. The credit facility became effective on November 22, 2002 and includes a term out option that allows any outstanding borrowings at the end of the revolving credit period to be repaid on November 21, 2004. Exelon may increase or decrease the sublimits of each of the participants upon written notification to these banks. As of December 31, 2002, there was no sublimit for Generation. The credit facility is expected to be used by Generation principally to support its commercial paper program. Certain of the credit agreements to which Generation is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes certain changes in working capital and interest on Sithe New Englands debt. Generations threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 3.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. At December 31, 2002, Generation was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. At December 31, 2002, Generations capital structure consisted of 49% common stock, 15% notes payable and 36% long term debt. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the Exelon corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and Business Services Company may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether such funding results in mutual economic benefits to each of the participants, although Exelon is not permitted to be a net borrower from the money pool. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or specific borrowing rates if the funds are provided by external financing. There have been no material money pool transactions in 2002. 118 Generations access to the capital markets and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. None of Generations borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. From time to time Generation enters into energy commodity and other derivative transactions that require the maintenance of investment grade ratings. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would allow the counterparty to terminate the derivative and settle the transaction on a net present value basis. The following table shows Generations securities ratings at December 31, 2002: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 A BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Under PUHCA, Generation can only pay dividends from undistributed or current earnings. Generation is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. At December 31, 2002, Generation had undistributed earnings of $924 million. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations Generations contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 are as follows: Payment Due within Due After 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years (in millions) Long Term Debt $ 2,137 $ 5 $ 1 $ 1,036 $ 1,095 Short Term Note to Sithe 534 534 Note Payable to Exelon Corporation 329 329 Operating Leases 592 32 45 51 464 Purchased Power Obligations 14,729 2,677 2,987 1,856 7,209 Spent Nuclear Fuel Obligations 858 858 Total Contractual Obligations $ 19,179 $ 3,577 $ 3,033 $ 2,943 $ 9,626 See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: Long Term Debt see Note 10 Short Term Note to Sithe see Note 4 Notes payable to Exelon for the acquisition of generating plants from TXU see note 16 Operating Leases see Note 13 Purchased Power Obligations see Note 13 Spent Nuclear Fuel Obligation see Note 9 Generation has a long term supply agreement through December 2022 with Distrigas to guarantee physical gas supply to Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 generating units. Under the agreement, prices are indexed to New England gas markets. 119 Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Generations current estimate of decommissioning costs for the nuclear plants owned by Generation is $7.4 billion in current year (2003) dollars. Nuclear decommissioning activity occurs primarily after a plant is retired. Based on the extended license lives of its nuclear plants, Generation will begin decommissioning its plants from 2014 through 2056, with expenditures primarily occurring when its operating plants are decommissioned, during the period from 2029 through 2056. At December 31, 2002, the decommissioning liability, which is recognized over the life of the plant, was recorded in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as Accumulated Depreciation and Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities in the amounts of $2.8 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $3.1 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2002. Generations commercial commitments as of December 31, 2002, representing commitments not recorded on the balance sheet but potentially triggered by future events, including obligations to make payment on behalf of other parties and financing arrangements to secure its obligations, are as follows: Expiration within 2008 and beyond Total 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Credit Facility(a) $ $ $ $ $ Letters of Credit (non debt)(b) 11 6 5 Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt)(c) 346 195 151 Performance Guarantees(d) 101 101 Surety Bonds(e) 43 43 Energy Marketing Contract Guarantees(f) 1 1 Nuclear Insurance Guarantee(g) 134 134 Sithe New England Equity Guarantee(h) 38 38 Total Commercial Commitments $ 674 $ 240 $ 156 $ $ 278 (a)Credit Facility Exelon, along with ComEd, PECO and Generation, maintain a $1.5 billion 364 day credit facility to support commercial paper issuances. At December 31, 2002, there were no borrowings against the credit facility. Generation does not have a sublimit under the facility. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, Generation did not have any commercial paper outstanding. (b)Letters of Credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (c)Letters of Credit (Long Term Debt) Direct pay letters of credit issued in connection with variable rate debt in order to provide liquidity in the event that it is not possible to remarket all of the debt as required following specific events, including changes in the basis of determining the interest rate on the debt. (d)Performance Guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (e)Surety Bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial surety bonds, excluding bid bonds. (f)Energy Marketing Contract Guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g)Nuclear Insurance Guarantee Guarantees of nuclear insurance required under the Price Anderson Act. This amount relates to Generations guarantee of AmerGens plants. Exelon has a $1.2 billion guarantee relating to Generations directly owned plants that is not included in this amount. 120 (h)Sithe New England Equity Guarantee See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the $38 million guarantee. After construction of the SBG facilities is complete, Generation could be required to guarantee up to an additional $42 million in order to ensure that the SBG facilities have adequate funds available for potential outage and other operating costs and requirements. Sithe Boston Generation Project Debt. In November 2002, Generation purchased the assets of Sithe New England. Sithe Boston Generating, LLC (SBG), a project subsidiary of Sithe New England has a $1.25 billion credit facility (SBG Facility), most of which is available to finance the construction projects of SBG. The outstanding balance of this facility at December 31, 2002 was $1.0 billion. The SBG Facility provides that if these construction projects are not completed by June 12, 2003, the SBG Facility lenders will have the right, but will not be required, to, among other things, declare all amounts then outstanding under the SBG Facility and the interest rate swap agreements to be due. Generation believes that the construction projects will be substantially complete by June 12, 2003, but that all of the approvals required under the SBG Facility may not be issued by that date. Generation is currently evaluating whether the requirements of the SBG Facility relating to the construction projects can be satisfied by June 12, 2003. In the event that the requirements are not expected to be satisfied by June 12, 2003, Generation will contact the SBG Facility lenders concerning an amendment or waiver of these provisions of the SBG Facility. Generation currently expects that arrangements for such an amendment or waiver, if necessary, can be successfully negotiated with the SBG Facility lenders. Unconsolidated Equity Investments. Generation is a 49.9% owner of Sithe and accounts for the investment as an unconsolidated equity investment. The Sithe New England asset purchase did not affect the accounting for Sithe as an equity investment. Separate from the Sithe New England transaction, Generation is subject to a PCA that gives Generation the right to Call the remaining 50.1% of Sithe, and gives the other Sithe shareholders the right to Put their interest to Generation. At the time of the purchase of Sithe in 2000, the other remaining interests in Sithe were held by Vivendi (34.2%), Marubeni (14.9%) and Sithe management (1%). If the Put option is exercised, Generation has the obligation to complete the purchase. At the end of this exercise period, which is December 2005, if Generation has not exercised its Call option and the other stockholders have not exercised their Put rights, Generation will have an additional one time option to purchase shares from the other stockholders to bring Generations ownership in Sithe from the current 49.9% to 50.1% of Sithes total outstanding common stock. The PCA originally provided that the Put and Call options became exercisable as of December 18, 2002 and expired in December 2005. However, upon Apollo Energy, LLCs (Apollo) purchase of Vivendis and Sithe managements ownership shares, Apollo agreed to delay the effective date of its Put right until June 1, 2003 and, if certain conditions are met, until September 1, 2003. There are also certain events that could trigger Apollos Put right becoming effective prior to June 1, 2003 including Exelon being downgraded below investment grade by Standard and Poors Rating Group or Moodys Investors Service, Inc., a stock purchase agreement between Generation and Apollo being executed and subsequently terminated, or the occurrence of any event of default, other than a change of control, under certain Generation or Apollo credit agreements. Depending on the triggering event, the Put price of approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest, needs to be funded within 18 or 30 days of the Put being exercised. There have been no changes to the Put and Call terms with respect to Marubenis remaining interest. The delay in the effective date of Apollos Put right allows Generation to explore a further restructuring of its investment in Sithe. Generation is continuing discussions with Apollo and Marubeni regarding restructuring alternatives that are designed in part to resolve its ownership limitations of Sithes qualifying facilities. In addition, Generation is exploring the sale of its interest in Sithe. In the event of a sale, Generation may recognize a one time loss. Generation would hope to implement any 121 additional restructuring or a sale of its Sithe investment in 2003. If Generation is unsuccessful in restructuring the Sithe transaction or selling its interest and, as a result, purchases the remaining 50.1% of Sithe under the PCA, Generation will proceed to implement measures to address the ownership of the qualified facilities as well as divest non strategic assets, for which the outcome is uncertain. If Generation exercises its option to acquire the remaining outstanding common stock in Sithe, or if all the other stockholders exercise their Put Rights, the purchase price for Apollos 35.2% interest will be approximately $460 million, growing at a market rate of interest. The additional 14.9% interest will be valued at fair market value subject to a floor of $141 million and a ceiling of $290 million. If Generation increases its ownership in Sithe to 50.1% or more, Sithe may become a consolidated subsidiary and Generations financial results may include Sithes financial results from the date of purchase. At December 31, 2002, Sithe had total assets of $2.6 billion and total debt of $1.3 billion. This $1.3 billion includes $624 million of subsidiary debt incurred primarily to finance the construction of six new generating facilities, $461 million of subordinated debt, $103 million of line of credit borrowings, $43 million of current portion of long term debt and capital leases, $30 million of capital leases, and excludes $453 million of non recourse project debt associated with Sithes equity investments. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Sithe had revenues of $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2002, Generation had a $478 million equity investment in Sithe. Additionally, the debt on the books of Generations unconsolidated equity investments and joint ventures is not reflected on Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets. Generation estimates that this debt, including Sithes debt described in the preceding paragraph, totals approximately $1.3 billion and that Generations portion of that amount, based on its ownership interest in the investments, is approximately $673 million. Generations equity investment in AmerGen was $160 million and $95 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Generation and British Energy, Generations joint venture partner in AmerGen, have each agreed to provide up to $100 million to AmerGen at any time that the Management Committee of AmerGen determines that, in order to protect the public health and safety and or to comply with NRC requirements, these funds are necessary to meet ongoing operating expenses or to safely maintain any AmerGen plant. The current financial condition of British Energy has been the focus of media attention recently. Generation cannot predict the ability of British Energy to provide funds to AmerGen. However, Generation does not believe this will impact AmerGens ability to conduct its business. Other Generations cash flow hedges are impacted by commodity prices. These hedge contracts primarily represent forward sales of Generations excess capacity that it expects to deliver. The majority of these contracts are for delivery within one year. These contracts have specified credit limits pursuant to standardized contract terms and require that cash collateral be posted when the limits are exceeded. When power prices increase relative to Generations forward sales prices, it can be subject to collateral calls if Generation exceeds its credit limits. However, when power prices return to previous levels or when Generation delivers the power under its forward contracts, the collateral would be returned to Generation with no impact on its results of operations. Generation believes that it has sufficient capability to fund any collateral requirements that could be reasonably expected to occur 122  The NRC regulates the sufficiency of Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for the retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) with scheduled contributions and earnings of the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2002, Generation has a number of units, which, due to current market conditions, are being funded at a rate less than anticipated with respect to the NRCs Funding Levels. Generations calculations indicate that over time Generation may need to adjust its funding levels by up to $190 million, or less than 5% of the total. Generation will submit its biennial report to the NRC at the end of March 2003. At that time, Generation will address potential actions, in accordance with NRC requirements, to assure that Generation will remain adequately funded compared to the NRC Funding Levels. Taking into account anticipated license extensions, long term earnings of fund investments and other factors, Generation still believes that scheduled regulated collections from ComEd and PECO customers will provide adequate funding to decommission its nuclear facilities in accordance with regulatory requirements in spite of any temporary shortfall in NRC Funding Levels. Critical Accounting Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Estimates above for a discussion of Generations Critical Accounting Estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business Generation faces a number of challenges in achieving its vision and keeping its commitments to its customers and investors; however, there are two principal areas where Generation focuses its attention. First, Generations financial performance is significantly affected by the availability and utilization of its generation facilities. As the largest U.S. nuclear generator, Generation faces operational and regulatory risks that, if not managed diligently, could have significant adverse consequences. Second, Generations results of operations are directly affected by wholesale energy prices. Energy prices are driven by demand factors such as weather and economic conditions in Generations service territories. They are also driven by supply factors in the regions where Generation operates currently have excess capacity. Over the last several years, wholesale prices of electricity have generally been low. The possibility of continued low wholesale prices, coupled with a continued economic recessionary trend, could adversely affect Generations business. These and other challenges that will affect how Generation manages its business are described below. Generation operates a fleet of generating assets and markets the output of a portfolio of supply, which includes 100% owned assets, co owned facilities and purchased power. As discussed previously, Generation has entered into long term PPAs with ComEd and PECO. The majority of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under these agreements. To the extent the portfolio is not needed to supply power to ComEd or PECO, its output is sold on the wholesale market. Generations ability to grow is dependent upon its ability to cost effectively meet ComEds and PECOs load requirements, to manage its power portfolio and to effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial performance may be affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. The ownership and operation of nuclear facilities involve certain risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; the impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human error; the costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear material; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning 123 nuclear facilities at the end of their useful lives. The following are among the more significant of these risks: Operational risk. Operations at any nuclear generation plant could degrade to the point where Generation would have to shut down the plant. If this were to happen, the process of identifying and correcting the causes of the operational downgrade to return the plant to operation could require significant time and expense, resulting in both lost revenue and increased purchased power and fuel expense to meet its supply commitments. For plants operated by Generation but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation could incur liabilities to the co owners. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur substantial costs to restart the plant. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and may include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident could exceed Generations insurance coverages and significantly affect its results of operations or financial position. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. Nuclear regulation. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under it or the terms of the licenses of nuclear facilities. Changes in regulations by the NRC that require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or that result in increased operating or decommissioning costs could adversely affect Generations results of operations or financial condition. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may initiate such actions. Additional security requirements could also be imposed. Plant life extensions. In 2001, Generation extended the estimated lives of certain nuclear stations. This change in estimate reflects the current and planned applications to the NRC to renew the operating licenses of Generations nuclear stations. These applications for renewal, if approved by the NRC, will allow Generation to operate these plants for an additional 20 years longer than originally authorized. Nuclear station service life extensions are subject to NRC approval of an extension of existing NRC operating licenses, which are generally 20 years. Generation continues to fully believe that any such applications for renewal of operating licenses will be approved. However, if the NRC does not extend the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. Generations financial performance is affected in large measure by the availability and use of its nuclear generation capacity. Nuclear capacity factors. Generation capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect its results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs, but produce electricity at low marginal costs due to low variable fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear generating facilities at high capacity factors. Generations nuclear fleet performed at a 92.7% capacity factor (which represents the percentage of the total maximum energy that could be produced if facilities were operating full time year round) in 2002 and is targeted to operate at a 94.2% capacity factor in 2003. In calculating capacity factors, Generations nuclear fleet includes the AmerGen plants and excludes the Salem generation facility, which is operated by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSE&G). Lower capacity factors would increase its operating costs and could require Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy its obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources 124 generally are at a higher cost than Generation otherwise would have incurred to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Refueling outage scheduling at nuclear plants affects availability and costs. Outages at nuclear stations to replenish fuel require the station to be "turned off." Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 22 days in duration. Generation has significantly decreased the length of refueling outages in recent years. However, when refueling outages last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each twenty day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.1% and 0.4%. The number of refueling outages, including AmerGen, will decrease to eight in 2003 from eleven in 2002. Maintenance and capital expenditures are expected to decrease by approximately $45 million and $10 million, respectively, in 2003 as compared to 2002 as a result of fewer nuclear refueling outages. Nuclear fuel quality may affect costs. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of its operations. Certain Generation nuclear units have recently identified to have a limited number of fuel performance issues. While actions have been taken in accordance with Generations policies and procedures to ensure there are no public, personnel or operational issues, evaluation continues and further actions are under consideration. These actions, such as down powers, mid cycle outages, and or accelerated replacement of suspect fuel assemblies, will result in increased costs in 2003. In March 2003, a decision was made to replace suspect fuel assemblies at the Quad Cities Unit 1 facility. The 2003 impact from this decision is estimated to be approximately $20 million, before income taxes. Generation continues to evaluate other units that utilize similar fuel assemblies, but there currently are no plans to replace this fuel on an accelerated basis. Generation is directly affected by wholesale energy prices. Generation sells energy in the wholesale markets after meeting its contractual commitments to Energy Delivery and other parties. These sales expose Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and cash flows may vary accordingly. The amount of generation capacity that is exposed to the volatility of market prices depends inversely on the level of demand at ComEd and PECO. The wholesale prices of electricity have generally been lower than historical levels over the last few years. A continued trend of low wholesale electricity prices could negatively affect Generations results of operations. Factors that affect wholesale energy prices include the overall demand for energy, fossil fuel costs and excess capacity within the industry. Demand for energy. An increased demand for energy will normally cause energy prices to increase; however, if this increase in demand drives an incremental increase in supply, energy prices may be less affected. The demand for energy is directly affected by weather conditions and economic conditions in Generations service territories. Weather conditions. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation manages its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements to ComEd and PECO. Extreme summer conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse affect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generation does incorporate contingencies into its planning for 125 extreme weather conditions, including reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Economic conditions. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds and PECOs service territories directly affect the demand for electricity and gas. Changes in economic conditions and activity in ComEds and PECOs service territories and in other parts of the United States can affect the level of operations required in the generating facilities as well as the prevailing prices of electricity and gas in the wholesale markets in which Generation does business. Fossil fuel costs. At any given time, the open market wholesale price of electricity is affected by the cost of supplying one more unit of electricity to the market at that time. Many times the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of gas plus the spark spread, the cost to convert gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the cost of gas may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. Excess capacity. In addition to being affected by demand factors such as weather, the economy, and fossil fuel costs, energy prices are also impacted by the amount of supply available in a region. In the markets where Generation sells power, there has been a significant increase in the number of new power plants coming on line which has driven down power prices over the last few years. An "excess supply" problem currently exists in many parts of the country. A key factor for Generations future earnings is the timing of a return to more normal levels in the supply demand balance within the regions where Generation operates. The scope and scale of Generations nuclear generation resources provide a cost advantage in meeting its contractual commitments and enable Generation to sell power in the wholesale markets. The generation assets transferred to Generation by ComEd and PECO during the 2001 corporate restructuring, the generating plants acquired in 2002 and Generations investments in Sithe and AmerGen provide a critical mass of generation capacity and a leadership position in energy wholesale markets. Generations resources, including AmerGen, include interest in 11 nuclear generation stations, consisting of 19 units, which generated 125,916 GWhs, or more than half of Generations total supply in 2002. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can take advantage of its scale and scope to negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services required. Generations nuclear plants benefit from stable fuel costs, minimal environmental impact from operations, and a safe operating history. Generations financial performance will be affected by its ability to effectively operate and integrate the assets of Sithe New England into its business and to market the output. In November 2002, Generation acquired the generating assets of Sithe New England, which includes 2,421 MWs of gas fired combined facilities under construction and several operating generating facilities, which together with the assets under construction total 4,066 MWs of capacity. The facilities under construction (Mystic 8, Mystic 9, and Fore River) are currently in the final stages of construction and testing. Generation anticipates commercial operation dates during the second quarter of 2003. These projects have experienced delays in construction and any further delays could adversely affect Generations results. See further discussion of the Sithe Boston Generation Project Debt in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation. With the continued low wholesale energy prices, Generation anticipates that the effects of its Sithe investment and the Sithe New England acquisition will be dilutive to earnings by approximately $125 million before income taxes in 2003. 126 Power Team has not fully committed the output from these facilities into the New England markets. As such, the uncommitted capacity of the Sithe New England assets is subject to the fluctuations in market demand and market prices. Substantially all of the natural gas requirements for Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 will be supplied through a twenty year natural gas contract that became effective on December 1, 2002 with Distrigas. The Distrigas facilities consist of a LNG import terminal located adjacent to the Mystic station. Generation is anticipating an additional pipeline gas supply arrangement to supplement LNG supplies to be in service by early 2005. In the interim, any disruption in LNG supplies to the Distrigas facilities could restrict the operating abilities of Mystic 8 and Mystic 9. The interaction between ComEd and PECOs businesses and Generations businesses provide a partial hedge. The price of power purchased and sold in the open wholesale energy markets can vary significantly in response to market conditions. Both ComEd and PECO have entered into long term agreements for the next several years with Generation to procure the power at fixed rates needed to meet the demand of their customers. The amounts provided to affiliates vary from month to month; however, delivery requirements are generally highest in the summer when wholesale power prices are also generally highest. Therefore, energy committed to serve ComEd and PECO customers is not exposed to the price uncertainty of the open wholesale energy market. Consequently, Generation has limited its earnings exposure to the volatility of the wholesale energy market to the energy generated beyond the ComEd and PECO requirements, as well as any other contracted longer term obligations. Generally, between 60% and 70% of Generations electricity generated serves ComEd and PECO customers. Generation expects such levels to decrease to between 55% and 60% as a result of activating the acquired Sithe New England plants, which are currently under construction. One of the responsibilities of Power Team is to establish a hedging strategy, incorporating the load obligations of ComEd and PECO, to minimize the contracted volatility of Generations earnings and cash flows, and to maximize the value of economic generation in excess of that needed to serve ComEd and PECO requirements. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. In recent years, IPPs and the generation companies of disaggregated utilities have installed new generating capacity at a pace greater than the growth of electricity demand. As a result, the energy generation business is currently suffering from over capacity in certain parts of the country, which reduces wholesale energy prices. As discussed above, Generation is well positioned because it has entered into agreements for the next several years with ComEd and PECO to sell the power needed to meet the demand of their customers. These agreements provide a mechanism to enhance stability in Generations earnings and limit its exposure to the negative effects of wholesale markets. The commencement of commercial operation of new generating facilities in the regional markets where Generation has facilities or contracts for power, such as the Midwest, Mid Atlantic, Northeast and South (including certain sections of Texas), would likely decrease wholesale power market prices in those regions, which could have a negative effect on Generations business and results of operations. Generations financial performance may be affected by the marketing, trading and risk management activities of Power Team. Generations wholesale marketing unit, Power Team, 127 uses Generations energy generation portfolio, transmission rights and its power marketing expertise to manage delivery of energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO, under long term and short term contracts, participates in the wholesale energy market to hedge its open energy (power and fossil fuels) positions, manages commodity and counterparty credit risks through the use of documented risk and credit policies, and uses its energy market expertise to engage in trading activities for speculative purposes on a limited basis. Power Team has substantial experience in energy markets, generation dispatch and the requirements for the physical delivery of power. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with Generations capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale energy market. Power Team began proprietary trading activities in 2001, but this activity accounts for a small portion of Power Teams efforts. In 2002, proprietary trading activities resulted in an $18 million after tax reduction in earnings. Power Team will continue proprietary trading activities but in a more limited capacity given the current lack of liquidity of power markets and reduced number of creditworthy counterparties. Power Team has managed to avoid the recent managerial problems experienced in the energy trading industry through the strict adherence to prudent risk management practices. However, the recent failures of energy companies and their related energy trading practices over the last year have diminished the size and depth of the wholesale energy market. Generation cannot predict how this will affect Power Teams trading operations in the future. Generation depends on counterparties fulfilling their obligations. Generations trading, marketing and contracting operations are exposed to the risk that counterparties, which owe Generation money or energy as a result of market transactions, will not perform their obligations. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. Energy supplied by third party generators, including AmerGen and Sithe, under long term agreements represents a significant portion of Generations overall capacity. These third party generators face operational risks such as those that Generation faces, and their ability to perform also depends on their financial condition. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to honor the underlying commitment at then current market prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties. These agreements reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 128 See the Credit Risk section in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Generation for further discussions on specific credit risk matters such as Generations potential counterparty exposures, including Dynegy Inc. (Dynegy). Generations business is also affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations/Standard Market Design. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which it delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that it does not need to satisfy long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources, and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale spot markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features that may create trading barriers between the markets. Although FERC has proposed initiatives, including Order 2000 and the proposed SMD rule, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers, these initiatives have not yet led to the development of such markets all across the country. PJMs market strongly resembles FERCs proposal, and both the New England Independent System Operator (NE ISO) and the New York Independent System operator (NYISO) are implementing market reforms. Generation strongly encourages the development of standardized energy markets and support FERCs standardization efforts as being essential to wholesale competition in the energy industry and to Generations ability to compete on a national basis and to meet its long term contractual commitments efficiently. Approximately 26% of Generations current generation resources are located in the region encompassed by PJM. If the PJM market is expanded to the Midwest, 82% of Generations current assets will be located within the expanded market. The PJM market has been the most liquid regional market and is largely consistent with the standard market design proposed by FERC. Generations future results of operations may be impacted by the successful expansion of that market to the Midwest and the implementation of any market changes mandated by FERC. Provider of Last Resort. As noted, ComEd and PECO have a POLR obligation that they have largely assigned to Generation through the full requirements contracts that it has with Generation. Currently both ComEd and PECO have entered into PPAs with Generation to provide 100% of their respective energy requirements. ComEds PPA with Generation is for 100% of its required load through 2004 at fixed prices, and in 2005 and 2006 it equals 100% of the output of ComEds former nuclear plants, now owned by Generation at market based prices. PECOs PPA with Generation is a full load requirements contract through 2010. Exelon intends to revise the PPA between ComEd and Generation to be a full requirements contract in 2005 and 2006. Additionally, the PPAs between Generation, ComEd and PECO may be extended beyond their current expiration dates. ComEd and PECO continue to work on resolution of the POLR issues with their respective state regulatory commissions and other market participants. Effective management of capital projects is important to Generations business. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. As mentioned previously, as part of Generations recent acquisition of the assets of Sithe New England, Generation is in the process of completing the construction of three high efficiency generating facilities with projected capacity of 2,421 MWs of energy. The inability to effectively manage the capital projects, such as the Sithe New England facilities, could adversely affect Generations results from operations. 129 Capital Markets/Financing Environment In order to expand Generations operations and to meet the needs of its current and future customers, Generation invests in its businesses. Generations ability to finance its business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of its operations and its current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect its decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets. Further discussions of Generations liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. Generations ability to grow its business is affected by its ability to finance capital projects. Generations businesses require considerable capital resources. When necessary, Generation secures funds, through Exelon, from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. Generation actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Generation currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper (issued through Exelon) to fund its operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. Generations ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see Generations Credit Ratings above in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources), investor confidence in Generation and Exelon, investor confidence in regional wholesale power markets, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. Generations credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. Generation has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Also, from time to time, Generation enters into energy commodity and other contracts that require the maintenance of investment grade ratings. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require Generation to incur higher financing costs and would allow, but not in most instances require, counterparties to energy commodity contracts to terminate the contracts and settle the transaction. Also, the failure to maintain investment grade ratings would restrict Generations access to the wholesale energy markets. Equity market performance affects Generations decommissioning trust funds and Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans and the eventual nuclear generation station decommissioning requirements. If the markets continue to decline, Exelon may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trusts in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with Exelons overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. See ITEM 7. ComEd, PECO, 130 Gneration Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets. Other Generation may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. Generations businesses are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which Generation conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. These regulations affect how Generation handles air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of Generations operations. In addition, Generation is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by ComEd or PECO and of property contaminated by hazardous substances generated. Generation believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, Generation has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Generation is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, Generations reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $15 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. Generation has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but Generation cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover its environmental liabilities. Generation cannot predict whether it will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by Generation, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. Generations financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. Generation does not fully know the impact that future terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism may have on its industry in general and on itself in particular. The events of September 11, 2001 have affected Generations operating procedures and costs. Generation has initiated security measures to safeguard its employees and critical operations and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of its energy production and delivery systems. Generation has met or exceeded all security measures mandated by the NRC for nuclear plants after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. These security measures resulted in increased costs in 2002 of $19 million, of which approximately $10 million was capitalized. On a continuing basis, Generation is evaluating enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assessing long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expense to develop and implement, but will provide increased assurances as to Generations ability to continue to operate under difficult times. Nuclear liability insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The current limit is $9.5 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries nuclear liability insurance in the maximum available amount (currently $300 million per site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. The Price Anderson Act expired on August 1, 131 2002, but existing facilities, such as those owned and operated by Generation, remain covered. The provisions of the Price Anderson Act related to commercial facilities have been extended through 2003. The extension affects facilities obtaining NRC operating licenses in 2003. Existing facilities are unaffected by the extension. Other insurance. In addition to nuclear liability insurance, Generation also carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under Generations property damage and liability insurance would negatively affect its results of operations. NEIL, a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for its nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2002 was $40 million, which was recorded as a reduction to O&M expense on its Consolidated Statements of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect Generations results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect Generations operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil and LNG. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect Generations operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Generations revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect Generations ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within Generations markets. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse affect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information appearing under the subheading "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" under "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. 132 ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with credit, interest rates and commodity price. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, and interest rates. Exelons corporate Risk Management Committee (RMC) sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives for Exelon and its subsidiaries through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the board of directors on the scope of ComEds derivative activities. Credit Risk ComEd is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territories and the resulting broad customer base mitigates ComEds credit risk exposure. For the year ended December 31, 2002, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3% of its retail electric revenues. ComEd manages credit risk using credit and collection policies which are regulated by the ICC. Interest Rate Risk ComEd uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. ComEd also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. These strategies are employed to maintain the lowest cost of capital. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $1 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2003. ComEd has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps in order to maintain its targeted percentage of variable rate debt, associated with debt issuances in the aggregate amount of $485 million fixed rate obligation. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $41 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2002. ComEd has forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate amount of $630 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, had a fair market value exposure of $52 million. As it remained probable that the debt issuances, the forecasted future transactions these swaps were hedging, would occur, although the issuances had been delayed, ComEd continued to account for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. In connection with ComEds January 22, 2003 issuance of $700 million in First Mortgage Bonds, ComEd settled swaps, in the aggregate notional amount of $550 million, for a payment of $43 million, which will be recorded as a regulatory asset and amortized over the life of the debt issuance. In 2002, ComEd settled $450 million of forward starting interest rate swaps and paid $10 million to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $49 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is 133 estimated to be $33 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2001, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $69 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by ComEd to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $36 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by ComEd to the counterparties. Commodity Price Risk As part of the 2001 corporate restructuring, ComEd entered into a PPA with Generation to meet its retail customer obligations at fixed prices. ComEds principal exposure to commodity price risk is in relation to revenues collected from customers who elect the PPO at market based prices, and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. ComEd has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the net impact of a 10% decrease in the average around the clock market price of electricity. Because the decrease in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by increased CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in counterparty credit and interest rates. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the board of directors on the scope of Exelons derivative activities. As a result of the PPA with Generation, PECO does not believe it is subject to material commodity price risk. Credit Risk Credit risk for PECO is managed by its credit and collection policies, which is consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised service territories. As a result, PECO has a broad customer base. For the year ended December 31, 2002, PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 8% of its retail electric revenues. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric generating suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering. However, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. 134 Interest Rate Risk PECO uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. PECO also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would not have a material impact on pre tax earnings for 2003. During 2002, PECO entered into forward starting interest rate swaps, with an aggregate notional amount of $200 million, in anticipation of the issuance of debt at PECO. These interest rate swaps were designated as cash flow hedges. In connection with bond issuances in 2002, PECO settled these forward starting interest rate swaps resulting in a $5 million pre tax loss recorded in OCI, which is being amortized over the life of the related debt. PECO has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure associated with the floating rate series of transition bonds issued to securitize PECOs stranded cost recovery. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value exposure of $22 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2002. PECO also has interest rate swaps in place to satisfy counterparty credit requirements in regards to the floating rate series of transition bonds which are mirror swaps of each other. These swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges; therefore, they are required to be marked to market if there is a difference in their values. Since these swaps offset each other, a mark to market adjustment is not expected to occur. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $23 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by PECO to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $20 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by PECO to the counterparties. Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity prices. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity security prices. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the Exelon business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of Generations derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk Commodity price risk is associated with market price movements resulting from excess or insufficient generation, changes in fuel costs, market liquidity and other factors. Trading activities and non trading marketing activities include the purchase and sale of electric capacity and energy and fossil 135 fuels, including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. The availability and prices of energy and energy related commodities are subject to fluctuations due to factors such as weather, governmental environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and Federal regulatory policies and other events. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of its obligations to customers, including Energy Deliverys retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge its anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is 4 years. Generation has an estimated 90% hedge ratio in 2003 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of Generations forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEd and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, and energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods the amount hedged declines to meet the commitment to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any opportunistic efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity is an approximately $37 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes a 90% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio and represent a very small portion of its overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than 1% of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. The trading portfolio is subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Most non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133 discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates. Those that do not are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 and the ineffective portion of hedge contracts are recognized in earnings on a current basis. The following detailed presentation of the trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers. Generation does not consider its proprietary trading to be a significant activity in its business; however, Generation believes it is important to include these risk management disclosures. 136  The following table describes the drivers of Generations energy trading and marketing business and gross margin included in the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2002. Normal operations and hedging activities represent the marketing of electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation, including ComEd and PECOs retail load, sold into the wholesale market. As the information in this table highlights, mark to market activities represent a small portion of the overall gross margin for Generation. Accrual activities, including normal purchases and sales, account for the majority of the gross margin. The mark to market activities reported here are those relating to changes in fair value due to external movement in prices. Further delineation of gross margin by the type of accounting treatment typically afforded each type of activity is also presented (i.e., mark to market vs. accrual accounting treatment). Normal Operations and Hedging Activities(a) Proprietary Trading Total Mark to Market Activities: Unrealized Mark to Market Gain/(Loss) Origination Unrealized Gain/(Loss) at Inception $ $ $ Changes in Fair Value Prior to Settlements 26 (29 ) (3 ) Changes in Valuation Techniques and Assumptions Reclassification to Realized at Settlement of Contracts (20 ) 20 Total Change in Unrealized Fair Value 6 (9 ) (3 ) Realized Net Settlement of Transactions Subject to Mark to Market 20 (20 ) Total Mark to Market Activities Gross Margin $ 26 $ (29 ) $ (3 ) Accrual Activities: Accrual Activities Revenue $ 6,785 $ $ 6,785 Hedge Gains/(Losses) Reclassified from OCI 76 76 Total Revenue Accrual Activities 6,861 6,861 Purchased Power and Fuel 4,230 4,230 Hedges of Purchased Power and Fuel Reclassified from OCI 23 23 Total Purchased Power and Fuel 4,253 4,253 Total Accrual Activities Gross Margin 2,608 2,608 Total Gross Margin $ 2,634 $ (29 ) $ 2,605 (b) (a)Normal Operations and Hedging Activities only include derivative contracts Power Team enters into to hedge anticipated exposures related to its owned and contracted generation supply, but excludes its owned and contracted generating assets. (b)Total Gross Margin represents revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense for Generation. The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2002. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table will incorporate the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as shown in the previous table, as well as the settlements from OCI 137 to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets at January 1, 2002 $ 78 $ 14 $ 92 Total Change in Fair Value during 2002 of Contracts Recorded in Earnings 26 (29 ) (3 ) Reclassification to Realized at Settlement of Contracts Recorded in Earnings (20 ) 20 Reclassification to Realized at Settlement from OCI (53 ) (53 ) Effective Portion of Changes in Fair Value Recorded in OCI (210 ) (210 ) Purchase/Sale of Existing Contracts or Portfolios Subject to Mark to Market 11 11 Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) at December 31, 2002 $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The following table details the balance sheet classification of the Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets recorded as of December 31, 2002: Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Current Assets $ 186 $ 6 $ 192 Noncurrent Assets 46 46 Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Assets 232 6 238 Current Liabilities (276 ) (276 ) Noncurrent Liabilities (124 ) (1 ) (125 ) Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Liabilities (400 ) (1 ) (401 ) Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask midpoint prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, by region and by product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2002 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or 138 liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and generate or require cash. Maturities within 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 and Beyond Total Fair Value Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts(1): Prices provided by other external sources $ (124 ) $ (48 ) $ (9 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ (186 ) Total $ (124 ) $ (48 ) $ (9 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ (186 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts(2): Actively quoted prices $ 26 $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 30 Prices provided by other external sources 3 2 2 7 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 7 (11 ) (4 ) (9 ) (2 ) (19 ) Total $ 33 $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ (7 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 18 Proprietary Trading, other derivative contracts(3): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by other external sources 6 (3 ) 3 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 5 1 6 Total $ 7 $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ $ 5 Average tenor of proprietary trading portfolio(4) 1.5 years (1)Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (2)Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. (3)Mark to market gains and losses on trading contracts are recorded in earnings. (4)Following the recommendations of the Committee of Chief Risk Officers, the average tenor of the proprietary trading portfolio measures the average time to collect value for that portfolio. Generation measures the tenor by separating positive and negative mark to market values in its proprietary trading portfolio, estimating the mid point in years for each and then reporting the highest of the two mid points calculated. In the event that this methodology resulted in significantly different absolute values of the positive and negative cash flow streams, Generation would use the mid point of the portfolio with the largest cash flow stream as the tenor. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2002. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place, however, given that under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to cash flow hedges for the year ended December 31, 2002, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and 139 changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge Other Comprehensive Income Activity, Net of Income Tax Power Team Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate and Other Hedges(1) Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI, January 1, 2002 $ 47 $ 1 $ 48 Changes in Fair Value (128 ) (9 ) (137 ) Reclassifications from OCI to Net Income (33 ) (33 ) Accumulated OCI Derivative Gain/(Loss) at December 31, 2002 $ (114 ) $ (8 ) $ (122 ) (1)Includes interest rate hedges at Generation. Generation uses a Value at Risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk associated with financial derivative instruments entered into for proprietary trading purposes. The measured VaR represents an estimate of the potential change in value of Generations proprietary trading portfolio. The VaR estimate includes a number of assumptions about current market prices, estimates of volatility and correlations between market factors. These estimates, however, are not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may differ because actual market rate fluctuations may differ from forecasted fluctuations and because the portfolio may change over the holding period. Generation estimates VaR using a model based on the Monte Carlo simulation of commodity prices that captures the change in value of forward purchases and sales as well as option values. Parameters and values are back tested daily against daily changes in mark to market value for proprietary trading activity. VaR assumes that normal market conditions prevail and that there are no changes in positions. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. This means that Generation may state that there is a one in 20 chance that if prices move against its portfolio positions, its pre tax loss in liquidating its portfolio in a one day holding period would exceed the calculated VaR. To account for unusual events and loss of liquidity, Generation uses stress tests and scenario analysis. For financial reporting purposes only, Generation calculates several other VaR estimates. The higher the confidence interval, the less likely the chance that the VaR estimate would be exceeded. A longer holding period considers the effect of liquidity in being able to actually liquidate the portfolio. A two tailed test considers potential upside in the portfolio in addition to the potential downside in the 140 portfolio considered in the one tailed test. The following table provides the VaR for all proprietary trading positions of Generation as of December 31, 2002. Proprietary Trading VaR 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, One Tailed Period End $ 0.2 Average for the Period 1.4 High 5.0 Low 0.2 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period, Two Tailed Period End $ 0.3 Average for the Period 1.5 High 5.3 Low 0.1 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, Two Tailed Period End $ 0.9 Average for the Period 4.6 High 16.7 Low 0.4 Credit Risk Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The following table provides information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2002. Credit exposure, in the below table, is defined as net accounts receivable as well as any net in the money forward mark to market exposure. Exposures are shown net, if such agreements with counterparties are in place. It further delineates that exposure by the credit rating of the counterparties and provides guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The 141 figures in the table below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through Independent System Operators (ISOs) which are discussed below. Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number Of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure Of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Investment Grade $ 156 $ $ 156 2 $ 71 Split Rating Non Investment Grade 17 11 6 No External Ratings Internally Rated Investment Grade 27 4 23 4 16 Internally Rated Non Investment Grade 4 2 2 Total $ 204 $ 17 $ 187 6 $ 87 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating Less than 2 Years 2 5 Years Exposure Greater than 5 Years Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Investment Grade $ 117 $ 39 $ $ 156 Split Rating Non Investment Grade 17 17 No External Ratings Internally Rated Investment Grade 27 27 Internally Rated Non Investment Grade 4 4 Total $ 165 $ 39 $ $ 204 Generation is a counterparty to Dynegy in various energy transactions. In early July 2002, the credit ratings of Dynegy were downgraded to below investment grade by two credit rating agencies. As of December 31, 2002, Generation had a net receivable from Dynegy of approximately $3 million and, consistent with the terms of the existing credit arrangement, has received collateral in support of this receivable. Generation also has credit risk associated with Dynegy through Generations equity investment in Sithe. Sithe is a 60% owner of the Independence generating station (Independence), a 1,040 MW gas fired qualified facility that has an energy only long term tolling agreement with Dynegy, with a related financial swap arrangement. As of December 31, 2002, Sithe had recognized an asset on its balance sheet related to the fair market value of the financial swap agreement with Dynegy that is marked to market under the terms of SFAS No. 133. If Dynegy is unable to fulfill the terms of this agreement, Sithe would be required to impair this financial swap asset. Generation estimates, as a 49.9% owner of Sithe, that the impairment would result in an after tax reduction of its earnings of approximately $10 million. In addition to the impairment of the financial swap asset, if Dynegy were unable to fulfill its obligations under the financial swap agreement and the tolling agreement, Generation would likely incur a further impairment associated with Independence. Depending upon the timing of Dynegys failure to fulfill its obligations and the outcome of any restructuring initiatives, Generation could realize an after tax charge of between $0 and $130 million. In the event of a sale of Generations investment in Sithe to a third party, proceeds from the sale could be negatively impacted between $65 million and $100 million (after tax). Additionally, the future economic value of AmerGens PPA with Illinois Power Company, a subsidiary of Dynegy, could be impacted by events related to Dynegys financial condition. 142 Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets, which are administered by ISOs: PJM, New England ISO, New York ISO, California ISO, Midwest ISO, Inc., Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and Texas, which is administered by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and in certain of these areas power is traded on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Generation uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Generation also uses interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $4 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2003. Under the terms of the Sithe Boston Generation, LLC (SBG) credit facility, SBG is required to effectively fix the interest rate on 50% of borrowings under the facility through its maturity in 2007. As of December 31, 2002, Generation has entered into interest rate swap agreements, which have effectively fixed the interest rate on $861 million of notional principal, or 83% of borrowings outstanding under the SBG credit facility at December 31, 2002. The fair market value exposure of these swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, is $92 million. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $108 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $76 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. Equity Price Risk Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning its nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2002, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $172 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits section of ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation Critical Accounting Estimates for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 143 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation. With the continued low wholesale energy prices, Generation anticipates that the effects of its Sithe investment and the Sithe New England acquisition will be dilutive to earnings by approximately $125 million before income taxes in 2003. 126 Power Team has not fully committed the output from these facilities into the New England markets. As such, the uncommitted capacity of the Sithe New England assets is subject to the fluctuations in market demand and market prices. Substantially all of the natural gas requirements for Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 will be supplied through a twenty year natural gas contract that became effective on December 1, 2002 with Distrigas. The Distrigas facilities consist of a LNG import terminal located adjacent to the Mystic station. Generation is anticipating an additional pipeline gas supply arrangement to supplement LNG supplies to be in service by early 2005. In the interim, any disruption in LNG supplies to the Distrigas facilities could restrict the operating abilities of Mystic 8 and Mystic 9. The interaction between ComEd and PECOs businesses and Generations businesses provide a partial hedge. The price of power purchased and sold in the open wholesale energy markets can vary significantly in response to market conditions. Both ComEd and PECO have entered into long term agreements for the next several years with Generation to procure the power at fixed rates needed to meet the demand of their customers. The amounts provided to affiliates vary from month to month; however, delivery requirements are generally highest in the summer when wholesale power prices are also generally highest. Therefore, energy committed to serve ComEd and PECO customers is not exposed to the price uncertainty of the open wholesale energy market. Consequently, Generation has limited its earnings exposure to the volatility of the wholesale energy market to the energy generated beyond the ComEd and PECO requirements, as well as any other contracted longer term obligations. Generally, between 60% and 70% of Generations electricity generated serves ComEd and PECO customers. Generation expects such levels to decrease to between 55% and 60% as a result of activating the acquired Sithe New England plants, which are currently under construction. One of the responsibilities of Power Team is to establish a hedging strategy, incorporating the load obligations of ComEd and PECO, to minimize the contracted volatility of Generations earnings and cash flows, and to maximize the value of economic generation in excess of that needed to serve ComEd and PECO requirements. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. In recent years, IPPs and the generation companies of disaggregated utilities have installed new generating capacity at a pace greater than the growth of electricity demand. As a result, the energy generation business is currently suffering from over capacity in certain parts of the country, which reduces wholesale energy prices. As discussed above, Generation is well positioned because it has entered into agreements for the next several years with ComEd and PECO to sell the power needed to meet the demand of their customers. These agreements provide a mechanism to enhance stability in Generations earnings and limit its exposure to the negative effects of wholesale markets. The commencement of commercial operation of new generating facilities in the regional markets where Generation has facilities or contracts for power, such as the Midwest, Mid Atlantic, Northeast and South (including certain sections of Texas), would likely decrease wholesale power market prices in those regions, which could have a negative effect on Generations business and results of operations. Generations financial performance may be affected by the marketing, trading and risk management activities of Power Team. Generations wholesale marketing unit, Power Team, 127 uses Generations energy generation portfolio, transmission rights and its power marketing expertise to manage delivery of energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO, under long term and short term contracts, participates in the wholesale energy market to hedge its open energy (power and fossil fuels) positions, manages commodity and counterparty credit risks through the use of documented risk and credit policies, and uses its energy market expertise to engage in trading activities for speculative purposes on a limited basis. Power Team has substantial experience in energy markets, generation dispatch and the requirements for the physical delivery of power. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with Generations capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale energy market. Power Team began proprietary trading activities in 2001, but this activity accounts for a small portion of Power Teams efforts. In 2002, proprietary trading activities resulted in an $18 million after tax reduction in earnings. Power Team will continue proprietary trading activities but in a more limited capacity given the current lack of liquidity of power markets and reduced number of creditworthy counterparties. Power Team has managed to avoid the recent managerial problems experienced in the energy trading industry through the strict adherence to prudent risk management practices. However, the recent failures of energy companies and their related energy trading practices over the last year have diminished the size and depth of the wholesale energy market. Generation cannot predict how this will affect Power Teams trading operations in the future. Generation depends on counterparties fulfilling their obligations. Generations trading, marketing and contracting operations are exposed to the risk that counterparties, which owe Generation money or energy as a result of market transactions, will not perform their obligations. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. Energy supplied by third party generators, including AmerGen and Sithe, under long term agreements represents a significant portion of Generations overall capacity. These third party generators face operational risks such as those that Generation faces, and their ability to perform also depends on their financial condition. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to honor the underlying commitment at then current market prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties. These agreements reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 128 See the Credit Risk section in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Generation for further discussions on specific credit risk matters such as Generations potential counterparty exposures, including Dynegy Inc. (Dynegy). Generations business is also affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations/Standard Market Design. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which it delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that it does not need to satisfy long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources, and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale spot markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features that may create trading barriers between the markets. Although FERC has proposed initiatives, including Order 2000 and the proposed SMD rule, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers, these initiatives have not yet led to the development of such markets all across the country. PJMs market strongly resembles FERCs proposal, and both the New England Independent System Operator (NE ISO) and the New York Independent System operator (NYISO) are implementing market reforms. Generation strongly encourages the development of standardized energy markets and support FERCs standardization efforts as being essential to wholesale competition in the energy industry and to Generations ability to compete on a national basis and to meet its long term contractual commitments efficiently. Approximately 26% of Generations current generation resources are located in the region encompassed by PJM. If the PJM market is expanded to the Midwest, 82% of Generations current assets will be located within the expanded market. The PJM market has been the most liquid regional market and is largely consistent with the standard market design proposed by FERC. Generations future results of operations may be impacted by the successful expansion of that market to the Midwest and the implementation of any market changes mandated by FERC. Provider of Last Resort. As noted, ComEd and PECO have a POLR obligation that they have largely assigned to Generation through the full requirements contracts that it has with Generation. Currently both ComEd and PECO have entered into PPAs with Generation to provide 100% of their respective energy requirements. ComEds PPA with Generation is for 100% of its required load through 2004 at fixed prices, and in 2005 and 2006 it equals 100% of the output of ComEds former nuclear plants, now owned by Generation at market based prices. PECOs PPA with Generation is a full load requirements contract through 2010. Exelon intends to revise the PPA between ComEd and Generation to be a full requirements contract in 2005 and 2006. Additionally, the PPAs between Generation, ComEd and PECO may be extended beyond their current expiration dates. ComEd and PECO continue to work on resolution of the POLR issues with their respective state regulatory commissions and other market participants. Effective management of capital projects is important to Generations business. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. As mentioned previously, as part of Generations recent acquisition of the assets of Sithe New England, Generation is in the process of completing the construction of three high efficiency generating facilities with projected capacity of 2,421 MWs of energy. The inability to effectively manage the capital projects, such as the Sithe New England facilities, could adversely affect Generations results from operations. 129 Capital Markets/Financing Environment In order to expand Generations operations and to meet the needs of its current and future customers, Generation invests in its businesses. Generations ability to finance its business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of its operations and its current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect its decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets. Further discussions of Generations liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. Generations ability to grow its business is affected by its ability to finance capital projects. Generations businesses require considerable capital resources. When necessary, Generation secures funds, through Exelon, from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. Generation actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Generation currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper (issued through Exelon) to fund its operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. Generations ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see Generations Credit Ratings above in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources), investor confidence in Generation and Exelon, investor confidence in regional wholesale power markets, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. Generations credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. Generation has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Also, from time to time, Generation enters into energy commodity and other contracts that require the maintenance of investment grade ratings. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would require Generation to incur higher financing costs and would allow, but not in most instances require, counterparties to energy commodity contracts to terminate the contracts and settle the transaction. Also, the failure to maintain investment grade ratings would restrict Generations access to the wholesale energy markets. Equity market performance affects Generations decommissioning trust funds and Exelons benefit plan asset values. The sharp decline in the equity markets since the third quarter of 2000 has reduced the value of the assets held in trusts to satisfy the obligations of pension and postretirement benefit plans and the eventual nuclear generation station decommissioning requirements. If the markets continue to decline, Exelon may have higher funding requirements and pension and other postretirement benefit expense. Exelon will continue to manage the assets in the pension and postretirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trusts in order to achieve the best return possible in conjunction with Exelons overall risk management practices and diversified approach to investment. See ITEM 7. ComEd, PECO, 130 Gneration Critical Accounting Estimates section that more fully describes the quantitative financial statement effects of changes in the equity markets on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets. Other Generation may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. Generations businesses are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which Generation conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. These regulations affect how Generation handles air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of Generations operations. In addition, Generation is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by ComEd or PECO and of property contaminated by hazardous substances generated. Generation believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, Generation has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance and site remediation and clean up. Generation is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2002, Generations reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $15 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. Generation has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but Generation cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover its environmental liabilities. Generation cannot predict whether it will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by Generation, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. Generations financial performance is affected by its ability to manage costs for security and liability insurance. Security. Generation does not fully know the impact that future terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism may have on its industry in general and on itself in particular. The events of September 11, 2001 have affected Generations operating procedures and costs. Generation has initiated security measures to safeguard its employees and critical operations and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of its energy production and delivery systems. Generation has met or exceeded all security measures mandated by the NRC for nuclear plants after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. These security measures resulted in increased costs in 2002 of $19 million, of which approximately $10 million was capitalized. On a continuing basis, Generation is evaluating enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assessing long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expense to develop and implement, but will provide increased assurances as to Generations ability to continue to operate under difficult times. Nuclear liability insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The current limit is $9.5 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries nuclear liability insurance in the maximum available amount (currently $300 million per site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. The Price Anderson Act expired on August 1, 131 2002, but existing facilities, such as those owned and operated by Generation, remain covered. The provisions of the Price Anderson Act related to commercial facilities have been extended through 2003. The extension affects facilities obtaining NRC operating licenses in 2003. Existing facilities are unaffected by the extension. Other insurance. In addition to nuclear liability insurance, Generation also carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the September 11, 2001 terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under Generations property damage and liability insurance would negatively affect its results of operations. NEIL, a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for its nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2002 was $40 million, which was recorded as a reduction to O&M expense on its Consolidated Statements of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions. The possibility of attack or war may adversely affect Generations results of operations, future growth and ability to raise capital. Any military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect Generations operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil and LNG. Just the possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war may affect Generations operations. War and the possibility of war may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Generations revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may affect Generations ability to raise capital. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within Generations markets. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generation facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse affect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See ComEd, PECO and Generation New Accounting Pronouncements above for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements.  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information appearing under the subheading "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" under "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 21, 2003. 132 ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with credit, interest rates and commodity price. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, and interest rates. Exelons corporate Risk Management Committee (RMC) sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives for Exelon and its subsidiaries through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the board of directors on the scope of ComEds derivative activities. Credit Risk ComEd is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territories and the resulting broad customer base mitigates ComEds credit risk exposure. For the year ended December 31, 2002, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3% of its retail electric revenues. ComEd manages credit risk using credit and collection policies which are regulated by the ICC. Interest Rate Risk ComEd uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. ComEd also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. These strategies are employed to maintain the lowest cost of capital. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $1 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2003. ComEd has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps in order to maintain its targeted percentage of variable rate debt, associated with debt issuances in the aggregate amount of $485 million fixed rate obligation. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $41 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2002. ComEd has forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate amount of $630 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, had a fair market value exposure of $52 million. As it remained probable that the debt issuances, the forecasted future transactions these swaps were hedging, would occur, although the issuances had been delayed, ComEd continued to account for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. In connection with ComEds January 22, 2003 issuance of $700 million in First Mortgage Bonds, ComEd settled swaps, in the aggregate notional amount of $550 million, for a payment of $43 million, which will be recorded as a regulatory asset and amortized over the life of the debt issuance. In 2002, ComEd settled $450 million of forward starting interest rate swaps and paid $10 million to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $49 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is 133 estimated to be $33 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2001, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $69 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by ComEd to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $36 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by ComEd to the counterparties. Commodity Price Risk As part of the 2001 corporate restructuring, ComEd entered into a PPA with Generation to meet its retail customer obligations at fixed prices. ComEds principal exposure to commodity price risk is in relation to revenues collected from customers who elect the PPO at market based prices, and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. ComEd has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the net impact of a 10% decrease in the average around the clock market price of electricity. Because the decrease in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by increased CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in counterparty credit and interest rates. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the board of directors on the scope of Exelons derivative activities. As a result of the PPA with Generation, PECO does not believe it is subject to material commodity price risk. Credit Risk Credit risk for PECO is managed by its credit and collection policies, which is consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised service territories. As a result, PECO has a broad customer base. For the year ended December 31, 2002, PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 8% of its retail electric revenues. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric generating suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering. However, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. 134 Interest Rate Risk PECO uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. PECO also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would not have a material impact on pre tax earnings for 2003. During 2002, PECO entered into forward starting interest rate swaps, with an aggregate notional amount of $200 million, in anticipation of the issuance of debt at PECO. These interest rate swaps were designated as cash flow hedges. In connection with bond issuances in 2002, PECO settled these forward starting interest rate swaps resulting in a $5 million pre tax loss recorded in OCI, which is being amortized over the life of the related debt. PECO has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure associated with the floating rate series of transition bonds issued to securitize PECOs stranded cost recovery. At December 31, 2002, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value exposure of $22 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2002. PECO also has interest rate swaps in place to satisfy counterparty credit requirements in regards to the floating rate series of transition bonds which are mirror swaps of each other. These swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges; therefore, they are required to be marked to market if there is a difference in their values. Since these swaps offset each other, a mark to market adjustment is not expected to occur. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $23 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by PECO to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $20 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by PECO to the counterparties. Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity prices. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity security prices. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management philosophy and objectives through a corporate policy, and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning and officers from each of the Exelon business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of Generations derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk Commodity price risk is associated with market price movements resulting from excess or insufficient generation, changes in fuel costs, market liquidity and other factors. Trading activities and non trading marketing activities include the purchase and sale of electric capacity and energy and fossil 135 fuels, including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. The availability and prices of energy and energy related commodities are subject to fluctuations due to factors such as weather, governmental environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and Federal regulatory policies and other events. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of its obligations to customers, including Energy Deliverys retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge its anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is 4 years. Generation has an estimated 90% hedge ratio in 2003 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of Generations forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEd and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, and energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods the amount hedged declines to meet the commitment to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any opportunistic efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity is an approximately $37 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes a 90% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio and represent a very small portion of its overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than 1% of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. The trading portfolio is subject to stringent risk management limits and policies, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Most non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133 discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates. Those that do not are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 and the ineffective portion of hedge contracts are recognized in earnings on a current basis. The following detailed presentation of the trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers. Generation does not consider its proprietary trading to be a significant activity in its business; however, Generation believes it is important to include these risk management disclosures. 136  The following table describes the drivers of Generations energy trading and marketing business and gross margin included in the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2002. Normal operations and hedging activities represent the marketing of electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation, including ComEd and PECOs retail load, sold into the wholesale market. As the information in this table highlights, mark to market activities represent a small portion of the overall gross margin for Generation. Accrual activities, including normal purchases and sales, account for the majority of the gross margin. The mark to market activities reported here are those relating to changes in fair value due to external movement in prices. Further delineation of gross margin by the type of accounting treatment typically afforded each type of activity is also presented (i.e., mark to market vs. accrual accounting treatment). Normal Operations and Hedging Activities(a) Proprietary Trading Total Mark to Market Activities: Unrealized Mark to Market Gain/(Loss) Origination Unrealized Gain/(Loss) at Inception $ $ $ Changes in Fair Value Prior to Settlements 26 (29 ) (3 ) Changes in Valuation Techniques and Assumptions Reclassification to Realized at Settlement of Contracts (20 ) 20 Total Change in Unrealized Fair Value 6 (9 ) (3 ) Realized Net Settlement of Transactions Subject to Mark to Market 20 (20 ) Total Mark to Market Activities Gross Margin $ 26 $ (29 ) $ (3 ) Accrual Activities: Accrual Activities Revenue $ 6,785 $ $ 6,785 Hedge Gains/(Losses) Reclassified from OCI 76 76 Total Revenue Accrual Activities 6,861 6,861 Purchased Power and Fuel 4,230 4,230 Hedges of Purchased Power and Fuel Reclassified from OCI 23 23 Total Purchased Power and Fuel 4,253 4,253 Total Accrual Activities Gross Margin 2,608 2,608 Total Gross Margin $ 2,634 $ (29 ) $ 2,605 (b) (a)Normal Operations and Hedging Activities only include derivative contracts Power Team enters into to hedge anticipated exposures related to its owned and contracted generation supply, but excludes its owned and contracted generating assets. (b)Total Gross Margin represents revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense for Generation. The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2002. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table will incorporate the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as shown in the previous table, as well as the settlements from OCI 137 to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets at January 1, 2002 $ 78 $ 14 $ 92 Total Change in Fair Value during 2002 of Contracts Recorded in Earnings 26 (29 ) (3 ) Reclassification to Realized at Settlement of Contracts Recorded in Earnings (20 ) 20 Reclassification to Realized at Settlement from OCI (53 ) (53 ) Effective Portion of Changes in Fair Value Recorded in OCI (210 ) (210 ) Purchase/Sale of Existing Contracts or Portfolios Subject to Mark to Market 11 11 Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) at December 31, 2002 $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The following table details the balance sheet classification of the Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets recorded as of December 31, 2002: Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Current Assets $ 186 $ 6 $ 192 Noncurrent Assets 46 46 Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Assets 232 6 238 Current Liabilities (276 ) (276 ) Noncurrent Liabilities (124 ) (1 ) (125 ) Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Liabilities (400 ) (1 ) (401 ) Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask midpoint prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, by region and by product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2002 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or 138 liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and generate or require cash. Maturities within 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 and Beyond Total Fair Value Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts(1): Prices provided by other external sources $ (124 ) $ (48 ) $ (9 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ (186 ) Total $ (124 ) $ (48 ) $ (9 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ (186 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts(2): Actively quoted prices $ 26 $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 30 Prices provided by other external sources 3 2 2 7 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 7 (11 ) (4 ) (9 ) (2 ) (19 ) Total $ 33 $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ (7 ) $ (2 ) $ $ 18 Proprietary Trading, other derivative contracts(3): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by other external sources 6 (3 ) 3 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 5 1 6 Total $ 7 $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ $ 5 Average tenor of proprietary trading portfolio(4) 1.5 years (1)Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (2)Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. (3)Mark to market gains and losses on trading contracts are recorded in earnings. (4)Following the recommendations of the Committee of Chief Risk Officers, the average tenor of the proprietary trading portfolio measures the average time to collect value for that portfolio. Generation measures the tenor by separating positive and negative mark to market values in its proprietary trading portfolio, estimating the mid point in years for each and then reporting the highest of the two mid points calculated. In the event that this methodology resulted in significantly different absolute values of the positive and negative cash flow streams, Generation would use the mid point of the portfolio with the largest cash flow stream as the tenor. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2002. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place, however, given that under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to cash flow hedges for the year ended December 31, 2002, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and 139 changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge Other Comprehensive Income Activity, Net of Income Tax Power Team Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate and Other Hedges(1) Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI, January 1, 2002 $ 47 $ 1 $ 48 Changes in Fair Value (128 ) (9 ) (137 ) Reclassifications from OCI to Net Income (33 ) (33 ) Accumulated OCI Derivative Gain/(Loss) at December 31, 2002 $ (114 ) $ (8 ) $ (122 ) (1)Includes interest rate hedges at Generation. Generation uses a Value at Risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk associated with financial derivative instruments entered into for proprietary trading purposes. The measured VaR represents an estimate of the potential change in value of Generations proprietary trading portfolio. The VaR estimate includes a number of assumptions about current market prices, estimates of volatility and correlations between market factors. These estimates, however, are not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may differ because actual market rate fluctuations may differ from forecasted fluctuations and because the portfolio may change over the holding period. Generation estimates VaR using a model based on the Monte Carlo simulation of commodity prices that captures the change in value of forward purchases and sales as well as option values. Parameters and values are back tested daily against daily changes in mark to market value for proprietary trading activity. VaR assumes that normal market conditions prevail and that there are no changes in positions. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. This means that Generation may state that there is a one in 20 chance that if prices move against its portfolio positions, its pre tax loss in liquidating its portfolio in a one day holding period would exceed the calculated VaR. To account for unusual events and loss of liquidity, Generation uses stress tests and scenario analysis. For financial reporting purposes only, Generation calculates several other VaR estimates. The higher the confidence interval, the less likely the chance that the VaR estimate would be exceeded. A longer holding period considers the effect of liquidity in being able to actually liquidate the portfolio. A two tailed test considers potential upside in the portfolio in addition to the potential downside in the 140 portfolio considered in the one tailed test. The following table provides the VaR for all proprietary trading positions of Generation as of December 31, 2002. Proprietary Trading VaR 95% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, One Tailed Period End $ 0.2 Average for the Period 1.4 High 5.0 Low 0.2 95% Confidence Level, Ten Day Holding Period, Two Tailed Period End $ 0.3 Average for the Period 1.5 High 5.3 Low 0.1 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, Two Tailed Period End $ 0.9 Average for the Period 4.6 High 16.7 Low 0.4 Credit Risk Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The following table provides information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2002. Credit exposure, in the below table, is defined as net accounts receivable as well as any net in the money forward mark to market exposure. Exposures are shown net, if such agreements with counterparties are in place. It further delineates that exposure by the credit rating of the counterparties and provides guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The 141 figures in the table below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through Independent System Operators (ISOs) which are discussed below. Rating Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Credit Collateral Net Exposure Number Of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Net Exposure Of Counterparties Greater than 10% of Net Exposure Investment Grade $ 156 $ $ 156 2 $ 71 Split Rating Non Investment Grade 17 11 6 No External Ratings Internally Rated Investment Grade 27 4 23 4 16 Internally Rated Non Investment Grade 4 2 2 Total $ 204 $ 17 $ 187 6 $ 87 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating Less than 2 Years 2 5 Years Exposure Greater than 5 Years Total Exposure Before Credit Collateral Investment Grade $ 117 $ 39 $ $ 156 Split Rating Non Investment Grade 17 17 No External Ratings Internally Rated Investment Grade 27 27 Internally Rated Non Investment Grade 4 4 Total $ 165 $ 39 $ $ 204 Generation is a counterparty to Dynegy in various energy transactions. In early July 2002, the credit ratings of Dynegy were downgraded to below investment grade by two credit rating agencies. As of December 31, 2002, Generation had a net receivable from Dynegy of approximately $3 million and, consistent with the terms of the existing credit arrangement, has received collateral in support of this receivable. Generation also has credit risk associated with Dynegy through Generations equity investment in Sithe. Sithe is a 60% owner of the Independence generating station (Independence), a 1,040 MW gas fired qualified facility that has an energy only long term tolling agreement with Dynegy, with a related financial swap arrangement. As of December 31, 2002, Sithe had recognized an asset on its balance sheet related to the fair market value of the financial swap agreement with Dynegy that is marked to market under the terms of SFAS No. 133. If Dynegy is unable to fulfill the terms of this agreement, Sithe would be required to impair this financial swap asset. Generation estimates, as a 49.9% owner of Sithe, that the impairment would result in an after tax reduction of its earnings of approximately $10 million. In addition to the impairment of the financial swap asset, if Dynegy were unable to fulfill its obligations under the financial swap agreement and the tolling agreement, Generation would likely incur a further impairment associated with Independence. Depending upon the timing of Dynegys failure to fulfill its obligations and the outcome of any restructuring initiatives, Generation could realize an after tax charge of between $0 and $130 million. In the event of a sale of Generations investment in Sithe to a third party, proceeds from the sale could be negatively impacted between $65 million and $100 million (after tax). Additionally, the future economic value of AmerGens PPA with Illinois Power Company, a subsidiary of Dynegy, could be impacted by events related to Dynegys financial condition. 142 Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets, which are administered by ISOs: PJM, New England ISO, New York ISO, California ISO, Midwest ISO, Inc., Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and Texas, which is administered by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and in certain of these areas power is traded on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Generation uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Generation also uses interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $4 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2003. Under the terms of the Sithe Boston Generation, LLC (SBG) credit facility, SBG is required to effectively fix the interest rate on 50% of borrowings under the facility through its maturity in 2007. As of December 31, 2002, Generation has entered into interest rate swap agreements, which have effectively fixed the interest rate on $861 million of notional principal, or 83% of borrowings outstanding under the SBG credit facility at December 31, 2002. The fair market value exposure of these swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, is $92 million. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $108 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be $76 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2002, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. Equity Price Risk Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning its nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2002, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $172 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits section of ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation Critical Accounting Estimates for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 143 
 
