Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation for a further discussion of Nuclear Decommissioning. AmerGen maintains decommissioning trust funds for each of its plants in accordance with NRC regulations and believes that amounts in these trust funds, together with investment earnings thereon, and additional contributions for Clinton from Illinois Power will be sufficient to fully fund its decommissioning obligations. Zion, a two unit nuclear generation station, and Dresden Unit 1 have permanently ceased power generation. Zion and Dresden Unit 1s SNF is currently being stored in on site storage pools and dry cask storage, respectively, until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. Generation has recorded a liability of $694 million at December 31, 2003, which represents the estimated cost of decommissioning Zion and Dresden Unit 1 in current year dollars. The majority of decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after 2013 and 2030 for Zion and Dresden Unit 1, respectively. Fossil and Hydroelectric Facilities. Fossil units include: base load units the coal fired units at Eddystone and Cromby and Generations interests in the Conemaugh Stations and Keystone; intermediate units the Cromby and Eddystone units and the Mystic 7 unit have dual fuel (oil/gas) capability; Handley, Mystic 8 and 9, Mountain Creek, New Boston, and Fore River are gas fueled stations; Wyman is an oil fueled station; and peaking units oil or gas fired steam turbines, combustion turbines and internal combustion units at various locations. Hydroelectric facilities include: base load units the Conowingo run of river hydroelectric facility on the Susquehanna River in Harford County, Maryland; and intermediate units the Muddy Run pumped storage hydroelectric facility in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Generation operates all of its fossil and hydroelectric facilities other than La Porte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman. In 2003, approximately 17% of Generations electric output was generated from Generations owned fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, an economic one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by the FERC. The Muddy Run and Conowingo facilities have licenses that expire in September 2014. Generation is considering applying to the FERC for license extensions of 40 years for both plants, but the duration of any license extension will depend on then current policies at the FERC. The processing of an extension to an existing hydroelectric license generally takes at least eight years. Insurance. Generation does not carry business interruption insurance for its fossil and hydroelectric operations other than its coverage for Boston Generating. Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. 17 Table of Contents Long Term Contracts In addition to owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the long term contracts described below: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MWs) Midwest Generation, LLC Various in Illinois 2004 3,858 Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2013 1,158 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP Franklin, Georgia 2030 925 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Green Country Energy, LLC Jenks, Oklahoma 2022 795 Others Various 2004 to 2021 5,137 Total 12,703 Midwest Generation, LLC Contract. Generation is a party to contracts with Midwest Generation, LLC (Midwest Generation), a subsidiary of Edison Mission Energy. Under the contracts, Generation initially had the right to purchase through 2004 the capacity and energy associated with approximately 9,460 MW of fossil fired generation stations located in Northern Illinois, formerly owned by ComEd. The generation units include base load, intermediate and peaking units. Under the contracts, Generation pays a fixed capacity charge that varies by season and a fixed energy charge. The capacity charge is reduced to the extent the plants are unable to generate and deliver energy when requested. Under the contracts, Generation has annual rights to reduce the capacity and related energy purchase obligations, and some of these rights were recently exercised. In 2003, Generation took 1,778 MWs of option capacity under the Collins and Peaking Unit Agreements as well as 1,265 MWs of option capacity under the Coal Generation PPA. On June 25, 2003, Generation notified Midwest Generation of its exercise of its call option under the Coal Generation PPA for 2004. Generation exercised its call option on 687 MWs of capacity for 2004 generated by Waukegan Unit 8 and Fisk Unit 19 and did not exercise its option on 578 MWs of capacity at Waukegan Unit 6, Crawford Unit 7, and Will County Unit 3. On October 1, 2003, Generation notified Midwest Generation of its exercise of certain termination options under the Collins and Peaking Unit Agreements, releasing 303 MWs for 2004, the fifth and final year of the contract. With the exercise of the termination options on the peaking plants in addition to the exercise of the options on the coal plants in June 2003, the contract with Midwest Generation has been finalized for 2004. Generation will take 1,696 MWs of non option coal capacity, 687 MWs of option coal capacity, 1,084 MWs of Collins Station capacity and 391 MWs of peaking capacity from Midwest Generation in 2004. In total, Generation has retained 3,858 MWs of capacity under the terms of the three existing PPAs with Midwest Generation. Federal Power Act The Federal Power Act gives the FERC exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, all public utilities subject to the FERCs jurisdiction are required to file rate schedules with the FERC with respect to wholesale sales or transmission of electricity. Tariffs established under FERC regulation give Generation access to transmission lines that enable it to participate in competitive wholesale markets. Because Generation sells power in the wholesale markets, Generation is deemed to be a public utility for purposes of the Federal Power Act and is required to obtain the FERCs acceptance of the rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. In 2000, Generation received authorization from the FERC to sell energy at market based rates. As is customary with market based rate schedules, the FERC reserved the right to suspend market based rate authority on a retroactive basis if it is subsequently determined that Generation or any of its affiliates exercised or have the ability to exercise market power. The FERC is also authorized to order refunds if it finds that market based rates are unreasonable. Generation recently filed its required triennial review application to continue its market based rate authorization. 18 Table of Contents As described above under Energy Delivery Transmission Services, the FERC issued Order No. 2000 to encourage the voluntary formation of RTOs which would provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. The intended benefits of establishing these entities includes the development of larger markets and the elimination or reduction of transmission charges imposed by successive transmission systems when wholesale generators cross several transmission systems to deliver capacity. However, inconsistencies in the pace of RTO development and significant state public utility commission concerns have resulted in delays in development of RTOs. PJM has been approved as an RTO, as has the Midwest ISO. ISO New England, the system operator for New England where Generation also owns facilities, currently has an application pending at the FERC for recognition as an RTO. The FERC also has fostered a standard market platform for the wholesale markets. The FERC proposals would also require RTOs to operate an organized bid based wholesale market for those who wish to sell their generation through the market and to manage congestion on transmission lines, preferably by means of a financially based system known as locational marginal pricing. The FERC has also issued proposals to encourage FERC jurisdictional transmission owners to develop RTOs, independent control of the transmission grid and expansion of the transmission grid by providing enhanced returns on equity for transmission assets. The FERCs plans for standard wholesale markets have met substantial opposition from a number of parties, including some state regulators and other governmental officials that it has been attempting to mitigate with public comment and more flexible proposals. The FERC is likely to move forward with these policies allowing regional variations during the coming year. FERC Order 2000 has not led to the rapid development of RTOs and the FERC has not yet finalized its standard market proposal, due in part to the resistance noted above. Exelon supports both of these proposals but cannot predict whether they will be successful or if they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. The FERC issued a final rule establishing standardized generator interconnection policies and procedures. Generators will benefit from not having to deal on a case by case basis with different and sometimes inconsistent requirements of different transmission providers. Several other actions by the FERC should be noted. First, the FERC announced in late November 2001 a new market power test, the Supply Margin Assessment (SMA) screen. Under the SMA, if within a particular geographic market an energy companys generation capacity exceeds the markets surplus capacity above peak demand then the test is failed. Where this occurs, the FERC will impose on the company and its affiliates a requirement to offer uncommitted capacity under a cost based rate structure. The only exemption will be for companies operating under the authority of an ISO or RTO with a FERC approved market monitoring and mitigation plan. Under this approach, it would be unlikely that a vertically integrated energy company serving franchised retail load would be able to pass the test and maintain market based rates, unless and until the company was a member of an approved ISO or RTO. In December 2001, the FERC essentially suspended the applicability of this test, holding that no company would be required to undertake any mitigation until after the FERC had held a technical conference on the subject. This technical conference has not been scheduled, but the FERC commissioners have stated publicly that the technical conference will be held in early 2004. In the meantime, Generation recently filed its required triennial review of its market based rates and argued that the SMA screen should exclude from consideration capacity that is committed under long term contracts to serve POLR load since it cannot be withheld from the market. Second, the FERC continues to exhibit a commitment to increased market monitoring with an intent to ensure that high price volatility, such as was seen previously in California, does not occur again. As part of this commitment, the FERC formed a new Office of Market Oversight and Investigation, which reports directly to the FERC Chairman. This new office will assess, among other things, market performance. It is unclear how Generations business may be affected by these initiatives. 19 Table of Contents Currently, while a significant portion of Generations capacity is located within the PJM RTO area, other significant generation is located within the Mid American Interconnected Network (MAIN) reliability region, which is not yet in an approved ISO or RTO. When ComEd joins PJM, most of this capacity will be in an approved RTO. Generation also owns capacity located within the service territory of Illinois Power Company (IP). IP may be sold to another utility and may be placed under the control of Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc., which is also an approved RTO. In the meantime, however, it is possible that under its evolving market power tests, the FERC might determine that Generation has market power in the MAIN region. If the FERC were to suspend Generations market based rate authority, it would most likely be necessary to file, and obtain FERC acceptance of, cost based rate schedules or schedules tied to a public index. In addition, the loss of market based rate authority would subject Generation to the accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on public utilities with cost based rate schedules. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in gigawatthours (GWhs) for 2003 and estimated for 2004: Source of Electric Supply 2003 2004 (Est.) Nuclear units (1) 117,502 139,092 Purchases non trading portfolio (2) 82,860 31,458 Fossil and hydroelectric units 24,310 21,138 Total supply 224,672 191,688 (1) Excluding AmerGen in 2003. Approximately 20,346 GWhs are included for AmerGen facilities in 2004 supply. (2) Including PPAs with AmerGen. The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its commitment to supply the requirements of ComEd, PECO and Exelon Energy Company and for sales to other utilities. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2007. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2007. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2007. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2007. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services for its nuclear units. Generation obtains approximately 25% of its uranium enrichment services from European suppliers. There is an ongoing trade action by USEC, Inc. alleging dumping in the United States against European enrichment services suppliers. In January 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission determined that USEC, Inc. was materially injured or threatened with material injury by low enriched uranium exported by European suppliers. The U.S. Department of Commerce has assessed countervailing and anti dumping duties against the European suppliers. Both USEC, Inc. and the European suppliers have appealed these decisions. Generation is uncertain at this time as to the outcome of the pending appeals, however as a result of these actions Generation may incur higher costs for uranium enrichment services necessary for the production of nuclear fuel. Coal is obtained for coal fired plants primarily through annual contracts with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. 20 Table of Contents Substantially all of the natural gas requirements for Boston Generatings Mystic 8 and Mystic 9 are supplied through a twenty year natural gas contract that became effective on December 1, 2002 with Distrigas of Massachusetts, LLC (Distrigas). The Distrigas facilities consist of a liquefied natural gas (LNG) import terminal located adjacent to the Mystic station. See Note 13 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the guarantee to Distrigas. Natural gas requirements for operating stations will be procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed such that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months inventory levels are managed to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with multi commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. Power Team Power Team has experience in energy markets, generation dispatch and the requirements for the physical delivery of power. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including Energy Delivery. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale energy market. Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity, and long , intermediate and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. These agreements are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers. Excess power is sold in the wholesale market. Generation has also purchased transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs. The intent and business objective for the use of its capital assets and contracts is to provide Generation with physical power supply to enable it to deliver energy to meet customer needs. Power Team also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is three years. Generations hedge ratio in 2004 for its energy marketing portfolio is approximately 89%. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to Energy Deliverys retail load. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand and volatility. During peak periods, the amount hedged declines to assure Generations commitment to meet Energy Deliverys demand, for which the peak demand is during the summer. For the portion of generation supply that is unhedged, fluctuations in market price of energy will cause volatility in Generations results of operations. Power Team also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes but this activity accounts for a small portion of Power Teams efforts. In 2003, proprietary trading activities resulted in an $1 million after tax increase in Generations earnings. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk management group and Exelons Risk Management Committee (RMC) monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Proprietary trading of derivatives, together with the application of the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133), may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. 21 Table of Contents At December 31, 2003, Generation had long term commitments, relating to the purchase and sale of energy, capacity and transmission rights from and to unaffiliated utilities and others, including the Midwest Generation contracts, as expressed in the following tables: Net CapacityPurchases (1) Power OnlySales Power Only Purchases from Non Affiliates Transmission Rights Purchases (2) 2004 $ 716 $ 3,393 $ 1,661 $ 113 2005 414 1,088 429 86 2006 410 290 276 3 2007 492 80 253 2008 434 226 Thereafter 3,880 723 Total $ 6,346 $ 4,851 $ 3,568 $ 202 (1) Net Capacity Purchases include capacity sales to TXU under the purchase power agreement entered into in connection with the purchase of two generating plants in April 2002, which states that TXU will purchase the plant output from May through September from 2002 through 2006. During the periods covered by the power purchase agreement, TXU is obligated to make fixed capacity payments and to provide fuel to Generation in return for exclusive rights to the energy and capacity of the generation plants. The combined capacity of the two plants is 2,334 MWs. Net capacity purchases also include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. (2) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments in 2004 and 2005 for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. Additionally, Generation has the following commitments: Generation has a PPA with ComEd under which Generation has agreed to supply all of ComEds load requirements through 2004. Under the ComEd PPA, prices for energy vary depending upon the time of day and month of delivery. An extension of this contract for 2005 and 2006 has been agreed to by ComEd and Generation with substantially the same terms as the PPA currently in effect, except for the prices of energy which were reset to reflect the current rates at the time the extension was agreed to. This extension must still be filed by ComEd with the ICC. Subsequent to 2006, ComEd will obtain all of its supply from market sources, which could include Generation. Generation has a PPA with PECO under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with substantially all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. PECO has also assigned its rights and obligations under various PPAs and fuel supply agreements to Generation. Generation supplies power to PECO from the transferred generation assets, assigned PPAs and other market sources. As part of AmerGens acquisition of its Clinton Nuclear Power Station (Clinton), AmerGen entered into a power sales agreement with the seller, IP. The agreement with IP for Clinton is for 69.5% of the output for a term expiring at the end of 2004. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2004 are as follows: (in millions) Production plant $ 573 Nuclear fuel 399 Total $ 972 22 Table of Contents The majority of Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2004 are for nuclear fuel and additions to or upgrades of existing facilities. Boston Generating On November 1, 2002, Generation purchased the assets of Sithe New England Holdings, LLC (now known as Exelon New England), a subsidiary of Sithe, and related power marketing operations. Exelon New Englands primary assets are gas fired facilities. In July 2003, Generation announced that it would transition out of its ownership of Boston Generating, a project subsidiary of Exelon New England, and the related projects and recorded an asset impairment charge of $945 million (before income taxes) associated with its decision. Boston Generating currently owns 3,145 MWs of generating capacity, of which 2,851 MWs are currently available for commercial operations, located in Massachusetts. The transition out of Generations ownership of Boston Generating will take place in a manner that complies with applicable regulatory requirements. For a period of time, Generation expects to continue to provide administrative and operational services to Boston Generating in its operation of the projects. Generation informed the lenders of its decision to exit and that it will not provide additional funding beyond its existing contractual obligations. Generation anticipates that the transition will occur in 2004. Sithe On November 25, 2003, Generation, Reservoir and Sithe completed a series of transactions resulting in Generation and Reservoir each indirectly owning a 50% interest in Sithe. The series of transactions is described below. Immediately prior to these transactions, Sithe was owned 49.9% by Generation, 35.2% by Apollo Energy, LLC (Apollo), and 14.9% by subsidiaries of Marubeni Corporation (Marubeni). Entities controlled by Reservoir purchased certain Sithe entities holding six U.S. generating facilities, each a qualifying facility under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, in exchange for $37 million ($21 million in cash and a $16 million two year note); and entities controlled by Marubeni purchased all of Sithes entities and facilities outside of North America (other than Sithe Energies Australia (SEA) of which it purchased a 49% interest on November 24, 2003 for separate consideration) for $178 million. Marubeni agreed to acquire the remaining 51% of SEA in 90 days if a buyer is not found, although discussions regarding an extension are ongoing. Following the sales of the above entities, Generation transferred its wholly owned subsidiary that held the Sithe investment to a newly formed holding company. The subsidiary holding the Sithe investment acquired the remaining Sithe interests from Apollo and Marubeni for $612 million using proceeds from a $580 million bridge financing and available cash. Generation sold a 50% interest in the newly formed holding company for $76 million to an entity controlled by Reservoir. On November 26, 2003, Sithe distributed $580 million of available cash to its parent, which then utilized the distributed funds to repay the bridge financing. In connection with this transaction, Generation recorded obligations related to $39 million of guarantees in accordance with FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN No. 45). These guarantees were issued to protect Reservoir from credit exposure of certain counter parties through 2015 and other indemnities. In determining the value of the FIN 45 guarantees, Generation utilized a probabilistic model to assess the possibilities of future payments under the indemnifications. Both Generation and Reservoirs 50% interests in Sithe are subject to put and call options that could result in either party owning 100% of Sithe. While Generations intent is to fully divest Sithe, the timing of the put and 23 Table of Contents call options vary by acquirer and can extend through March 2006. The pricing of the put and call options is dependent on numerous factors, such as the acquirer, date of acquisition and assets owned by Sithe at the time of exercise. Any closing under either the put or call options is conditioned upon obtaining state and federal regulatory approvals. Based on Generations interpretation of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN No. 46 R), it is reasonably possible that Generation will consolidate Sithe as of March 31, 2004. See Note 1 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding FIN No. 46 R. Enterprises Enterprises consists primarily of the energy services business of Exelon Services, the district cooling business of Thermal, the electrical contracting business of F&M Holdings, Inc., a communications joint venture and other investments weighted towards the communications, energy services and retail services industries. In September 2003, Enterprises sold the electric construction and services, underground and telecom businesses of InfraSource, Inc. In December 2003, Enterprises signed agreements to sell the Chicago operations and Aladdin facility of Thermal and certain direct investments held by Enterprises. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, became part of Generation. InfraSource, prior to its sale in September 2003, provided infrastructure services, including infrastructure construction, operation management and maintenance services to owners of electric, gas, cable and communications systems, including industrial and commercial customers, utilities and municipalities, throughout the United States. Since it was established in 1997, InfraSource acquired thirteen infrastructure service companies. For the period through the sale in 2003, InfraSource had revenues of approximately $540 million and, at the time of the sale, had approximately 4,000 employees. At December 31, 2003, F&M Holdings, Inc. is primarily the remaining operations of the former InfraSource with approximately 400 employees. Enterprises is continuing to pursue opportunities to sell F&M Holdings, Inc. in 2004. Exelon Services is engaged in the design, installation and servicing of heating, ventilation and air conditioning facilities for commercial and industrial customers throughout the Midwest. Exelon Services also provides energy related services, including performance contracting and energy management systems. Enterprises is continuing to pursue opportunities to sell Exelon Services in 2004. Exelon Energy Company provides retail electric and gas services as an unregulated retail energy supplier in Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania and other areas in the Midwest and Northeast United States. Its retail energy sales business is dependent upon continued deregulation of retail electric and gas markets and its ability to obtain supplies of electricity and gas at competitive prices in the wholesale market. The low margin nature of the business makes it important to achieve concentrations of customers with higher volumes so as to manage costs. Exelon Energy Company became part of Generation effective as of January 1, 2004. Exelon Thermal provides district cooling and related services to offices and other buildings in the central business district of Chicago and in other cities in North America. District cooling involves the production of chilled water at one or more central locations and its circulation to customers buildings, primarily for air conditioning. In December 2003, Enterprises signed agreements to sell the Chicago operations and Aladdin thermal facility. Exelon Communications is the unit of Enterprises through which Exelon manages its communications investments. Exelon Communications principal investment is PECO TelCove, formerly known as PECO Adelphia Communications (PECO TelCove). PECO TelCove is a competitive local exchange carrier, providing local and long distance, point to point voice and data communications, internet access and enhanced data 24 Table of Contents services for businesses and institutions in eastern Pennsylvania. PECO TelCove is a 50% owned joint venture with Adelphia Business Solutions, doing business as TelCove. PECO TelCove utilizes a large scale, fiber optic cable based network that currently extends over 1,100 miles and is connected to major long distance carriers and local businesses. Exelon Capital Partners was created in 1999 as a vehicle for direct venture capital investing in the areas of unregulated energy sales, energy services, utility infrastructure services, e commerce and communications. At December 31, 2003, Exelon Capital Partners had direct investments in ten companies and investments in four venture capital funds. Enterprises is focused on operating its businesses and investments with the goal of maximizing its earnings and cash flow. Enterprises is not currently contemplating any acquisitions. Enterprises expects to divest itself of businesses that are not consistent with Exelons strategic direction. This does not necessarily mean an immediate exit from all Enterprises businesses, but rather businesses may be retained for a period of time if that course of action will increase their value. Employees As of January 1, 2004, Exelon and its subsidiaries had approximately 20,000 employees, in the following companies: ComEd 5,900 PECO 2,300 Generation 7,700 Enterprises 2,200 BSC and Corporate (a) 1,900 Total 20,000 (a) As a result of The Exelon Way restructuring initiatives to provide greater operational efficiencies, BSC and Corporate includes approximately 400 Energy Delivery shared services employees that provide services to ComEd and PECO. Approximately 5,800 employees, including 4,100 employees of ComEd, 1,600 employees of Generation and 100 employees of BSC, are covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) with Local 15 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) (IBEW Local 15). AmerGen has separate CBAs for each of its nuclear facilities, which cover an aggregate of approximately 700 employees. The Generation CBA with IBEW Local 15 has been extended to expire on September 30, 2007. The CBA for ComEd and BSC expires on September 30, 2008. The Clinton, Oyster Creek and Three Mile Island (TMI) CBAs expire on December 15, 2005, January 31, 2006 and February 29, 2004, respectively. The CBAs provide for a voluntary severance plan. In addition to IBEW Local 15 and the three IBEW locals covering the AmerGen facilities, approximately 200 Generation employees are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America. Approximately 1,600 Enterprises employees are represented by unions, including approximately 400 employees who are represented by various local unions of the IBEW. The remaining union employees are members of a number of different local unions, including laborers, welders, operators, plumbers and machinists. During 2003, an election was held at Exelon Power, a division of Generation, that resulted in union representation. Exelon Power and IBEW Local 614 are currently in negotiations for an initial agreement. PECO employees are not currently covered by a CBA. Over the past several years, a number of unions have filed petitions with the National Labor Relations Board to hold certification elections for different segments of employees within PECO. In all cases, PECO employees have rejected union representation. On August 15, 2002, 25 Table of Contents the IBEW filed a petition to conduct a unionization vote of certain of PECOs employees. On May 21, 2003, the PECO union election was held and a majority of PECO workers voted against union representation. The results of the election have not been certified due to pending challenges and objections. Exelon expects that such petitions, related to segments of employees at PECO, Generation and Enterprises, will continue to be filed in the future. Environmental Regulation General Specific operations of Exelon, primarily those of ComEd, PECO, and Generation, are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by various states and local jurisdictions where Exelon operates its facilities. The Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the State of Illinois, together with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, which enforces regulations of the IPCB and issues permits in connection with environmental control. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PDEP) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has jurisdiction in Texas and the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction in Massachusetts. State regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated. Those permits must be renewed periodically. Generation either has NPDES permits for all of its generating stations or has pending applications for such permits. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and interstate agencies, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These potentially responsible parties (PRPs) can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. ComEd, PECO and Generation and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. 26 Table of Contents By notice issued in November 1986, the EPA notified over 800 entities, including ComEd and PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to releases of radioactive and or toxic substances from the Maxey Flats disposal site, a LLRW disposal site near Moorehead, Kentucky, where ComEd and PECO disposed of low level radioactive wastes resulting from their nuclear generation activities, which are now the responsibility of Generation. A settlement was reached among the Federal and private PRPs, including ComEd and PECO, the Commonwealth of Kentucky (Kentucky) and the EPA concerning their respective roles and responsibilities in conducting remedial activities at the site. Under the settlement, which was incorporated into a Federal court Consent Decree, the private PRPs agreed to perform the initial remedial work at the site and Kentucky agreed to assume responsibility for long range maintenance and final remediation of the site. On October 5, 2003, the EPA issued a Certificate of Completion indicating that the private PRPs have completed their obligations under the Consent Decree. The site is being turned over to Kentucky as provided in the Consent Decree. The private PRPs, including Generation, will maintain oversight of Kentuckys activities to assure the stability of the site since the private PRPs have residual liability if there is a remedy failure over the next ten years. By notice issued in December 1987, the EPA notified several entities, including PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to wastes resulting from the treatment and disposal of transformers and miscellaneous electrical equipment at a site located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (the Metal Bank of America site). Several of the PRPs, including PECO, formed a steering committee to investigate the nature and extent of possible involvement in this matter. On May 29, 1991, a Consent Order was issued by the EPA pursuant to which the members of the steering committee agreed to perform the remedial investigation and feasibility study as described in the work plan issued with the Consent Order. PECOs share of the cost of the study was approximately 30%. On July 19, 1995, the EPA issued a proposed plan for remediation of the site, which involves removal of contaminated soil, sediment and groundwater and which the EPA estimated would cost approximately $17 million to implement. On June 26, 1998, the EPA issued an order to the non de minimis PRP group members, and others, including the owner, to implement the remedial design and remedial action. The PRP group has conducted the remedial design and submitted to the EPA the revised final design on January 15, 2003. During the design process, the PRP group proposed certain revisions to the EPAs preferred remedy, in response to which the EPA has issued two explanations of significant differences that are expected to reduce the costs of the preferred remedy. The final design estimates for the cost to implement the remedial action range from $12 million to $15 million. At this time, PECO cannot predict with reasonable certainty the actual cost of the final remedy, who will implement the remedy, or the cost, if any, to the PRPs or any of its members, including PECO. The ultimate cost to the PRPs and to PECO will also depend upon the share of costs that is allocated to the owners and operators of the Metal Bank of America site in litigation that currently is pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. MGP Sites MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to 1950. ComEd generally did not operate MGPs as a corporate entity but did, however, acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities. Approximately half of these sites were transferred to Nicor Gas as part of a general conveyance in 1954. ComEd also acquired former MGP sites as vacant real estate on which ComEd facilities have been constructed. To date, ComEd has identified 42 former MGP sites for which it may be liable for remediation. Of these 42 sites, the Illinois Protection Agency has approved the clean up of three sites. Similarly, PECO has identified 27 sites where former MGP activities may have resulted in site contamination. Of these 27 sites, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection has approved the clean up of six sites. With respect to these sites, ComEd and PECO are presently engaged in performing various levels of activities, including initial evaluation to determine the existence and nature of the contamination, detailed evaluation to determine the extent of the contamination and the necessity and possible methods of remediation, and implementation of remediation. ComEd and PECO are working closely with regulatory authorities in the various jurisdictions to develop and implement appropriate plans and schedules for evaluation, risk ranking, detailed study and remediation activities on an individual site and overall program basis. The status of each of the sites in the program varies and is 27 Table of Contents reviewed periodically with the regulatory authorities. At December 31, 2003, ComEd and PECO had accrued $64 million (discounted) and $41 million (discounted), respectively, for investigation and remediation of these MGP sites that currently can be reasonably estimated. ComEds reserve was increased by $17 million during 2002 and an additional $12 million during 2003 in connection with the ongoing remediation for a MGP site in Oak Park, Illinois. The remediation of the Oak Park site was substantially complete as of December 31, 2003. However, there are several personal injury and property damage claims pending related to this site. ComEd and PECO believe that they could incur additional liabilities with respect to MGP sites, which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. PECO has sued, and ComEd is in negotiations, with a number of insurance carriers seeking indemnity/coverage for remediation costs associated with these former MGP sites. Additionally, PECO is currently collecting through regulated gas rates, revenues to offset expenditures on MGP site remediation. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the EPA and the various state environmental agencies in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Illinois and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution. The Amendments include a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from electric power plants. Flue gas desulphurization systems (scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units other than the Keystone Station. Keystone is subject to, and in compliance with, the Phase II SO2 and NOx limits of the Amendments, which became effective January 1, 2000. Generation and the other Keystone co owners are purchasing SO2 emission allowances to comply with the Phase II limits. Generation has completed implementation of measures, including the installation of NOx emissions controls and the imposition of certain operational constraints, to comply with the Reasonably Available Control Technology limitations and state level ozone season (May to September) NOx reduction regulations. These state level regulations were developed by eastern states to reduce summertime NOx emissions pursuant to several Federal NOx reduction regulations adopted by the Federal EPA during 1998 and 1999 to address regional ozone transport. State level NOx reduction regulations took effect May 1, 2003 in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. Compliance in Illinois is required starting May 31, 2004. Texas is not covered by the EPAs ozone transport regulations. When fully implemented on May 31, 2004, the EPAs ozone transport regulations will require 19 eastern states to reduce summertime NOx emissions. Exelon has evaluated options for compliance with the new NOx regulations and installed controls on the two coal fired units at the Eddystone Generating Station (Selective Non Catalytic Reduction) and installed controls on the two coal fired units (Selective Catalytic Reduction) at the Keystone Generating Station. In Massachusetts, an Air Quality Improvement Plan is in place for the Mystic generating station for compliance with the Massachusettss multi pollutant regulations. The plan includes management of low sulfur fuels on unit 7, and dry low NOx combustors, Selective Catalytic Reduction and CO Oxidation Catalyst on the new gas fired units 8 and 9 that achieved commercial operation in 2003. Generations NOx compliance program will be supplemented with the purchase of additional NOx allowances on an as needed basis. The eight new peaking units commissioned during 2002 at the Southeast Chicago Generating Station are equipped with NOx controls that meet requirements for new sources. The Exelon generating stations in the Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) area are required to comply with the DFW NOx State Implementation Plan (SIP) that commenced on May 1, 2003, with full implementation on May 1, 2005. Additionally, beginning May 1, 2003 these plants must comply with the Emission Banking and Trading of Allowances (EBTA) program established by the enactment of Senate Bill 7 during the 76th Texas Legislative session for the purpose of achieving substantial reductions in NOx from grandfathered electric generating facilities. To comply with both the DFW NOx SIP and EBTA program, Generation has embarked on a plan to install NOx control equipment on several of the units at the Handley and Mountain Creek generating stations. 28 Table of Contents Many other provisions of the Amendments affect activities of Exelons businesses, primarily Generation. The Amendments establish stringent control measures for geographical regions which have been determined by the EPA not to meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS); establish limits on the purchase and operation of motor vehicles and require increased use of alternative fuels; establish stringent controls on emissions of toxic air pollutants and provide for possible future designation of some utility emissions as toxic; establish new permit and monitoring requirements for sources of air emissions; and provide for significantly increased enforcement power, and civil and criminal penalties. Several other legislative and regulatory proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including generating plants, are under active consideration. On the Federal legislative front, several multi pollutant bills have been introduced in Congress that would reduce generating plant emissions of NOx, SO2, mercury and or carbon dioxide starting late this decade. On the Federal regulatory front, the EPA announced in December 2003 its intention to publish several proposed regulations in the Federal Register during early 2004. One proposed regulation would require a reduction in mercury emissions from coal fired plants, and establish nickel emission standards for oil fired plants later this decade. Another proposed regulation, Interstate Air Quality Rule, would require further reductions of NOx and SO2 emissions in the eastern United States in two phases (2010 and 2015) to support regional attainment of the new federal NAAQS for fine particulate (PM2.5) and ground level ozone (8 hour standard). Exelon is unable at this time to ascertain which proposals may take effect, what requirements they may contain, or how they may affect Exelons businesses. At this time, Exelon can provide no assurance that these proposals if adopted will not have a significant effect on Exelons operations and costs. Costs At December 31, 2003, ComEd, PECO and Generation accrued $69 million, $50 million and $10 million, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation. These costs include approximately $64 million at ComEd and $41 million at PECO for former MGP sites as described above. ComEd and PECO cannot currently predict whether they will incur other significant liabilities for additional investigation and remediation costs at sites presently identified or additional sites which may be identified by ComEd and PECO, environmental agencies or others or whether all such costs will be recoverable through rates or from third parties. The budgets for expenditures in 2004 at ComEd, PECO and Generation for compliance with environmental requirements total approximately $10 million, $9 million and $3 million, respectively. In addition, ComEd, PECO and Generation may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Funding LLC, ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, PECO Energy Transition Trust, and PECO Energy Capital Trust III were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd, and PECO in accordance with FIN No. 46 R. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Energy Capital Trust IV, a financing subsidiary created in May 2003, was deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon and PECO in accordance with FIN No. 46, prior to its subsequent revision in December 2003. Amounts owed to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to affiliates, long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and long term debt to PECO Energy Transitional Trust debt to PECO Energy Transitional Trust within the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and interest owed to these entities subsequent to the adoption of FIN No. 46 and FIN No. 46 R was recorded as interest expense to affiliates within the Consolidated Statements of Income. Prior periods were not restated. ComEd Transitional Funding Trust (ComEd Funding Trust), a Delaware statutory trust, was formed on October 28, 1998, pursuant to a trust agreement among First Union Trust Company, National Association, now Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Delaware trustee, and two individual trustees appointed by ComEd. ComEd Funding Trust was created for the sole purpose of issuing transitional funding notes to securitize 29 Table of Contents intangible transition property granted to ComEd Funding LLC, a ComEd affiliate, by an ICC order issued July 21, 1998. On December 16, 1998, ComEd Funding Trust issued $3.4 billion of transitional funding notes, the proceeds of which were used to purchase the intangible transition property held by ComEd Funding LLC. ComEd Funding LLC transferred the proceeds to ComEd where they were used, among other things, to repurchase outstanding debt and equity securities of ComEd. The transitional funding notes are solely obligations of ComEd Funding Trust and are secured by the intangible transition property, which represents the right to receive instrument funding charges collected from ComEds customers. The instrument funding charges represent a non bypassable, usage based, per kWh charge on designated consumers of electricity. ComEd Financing I, a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by ComEd on July 21, 1995. ComEd Financing I was created solely for the purpose of issuing $200 million of trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities issued on September 26, 1995, carried an annual distribution rate of 8.48% and were mandatorily redeemable on September 30, 2035. The sole assets of ComEd Financing I were $206 million principal amount of 8.48% subordinated deferrable interest notes due September 30, 2035, issued by ComEd. On March 20, 2003, ComEd Financing I redeemed all of its trust preferred securities at a redemption price of 100% of the liquidation amount, plus accrued distributions to the redemption date. ComEd redeemed $206 million of its 8.48% subordinated debentures issued to ComEd Financing I. The preferred securities were refinanced with trust preferred securities (see ComEd Financing III below). ComEd Financing II, a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by ComEd on November 20, 1996. ComEd Financing II was created solely for the purpose of issuing $150 million of trust capital securities. The trust capital securities were issued on January 24, 1997, carry an annual distribution rate of 8.50% and are mandatorily redeemable on January 15, 2027. The sole assets of ComEd Financing II are $155 million principal amount of 8.50% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due January 15, 2027, issued by ComEd. ComEd Financing III, a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by ComEd on September 5, 2002. ComEd Financing III was created for the sole purpose of issuing and selling preferred and common securities. On March 17, 2003, ComEd Financing III issued $200 million of trust preferred securities, carrying an annual distribution rate of 6.35%, which are mandatorily redeemable on March 15, 2033. The sole assets of ComEd Financing III are $206 million principal amount of 6.35% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due March 15, 2033, issued by ComEd. The preferred securities were used to refinance the preferred securities of ComEd Financing I. PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), a Delaware statutory trust wholly owned by PECO, was formed on June 23, 1998 pursuant to a trust agreement among PECO, as grantor, First Union Trust Company, National Association, now Wachovia Bank, National Association, as issuer trustee, and two beneficiary trustees appointed by PECO. PETT was created for the sole purpose of issuing transition bonds to securitize a portion of PECOs authorized stranded cost recovery. On March 25, 1999, PETT issued $4 billion of its Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. On May 2, 2000, PETT issued $1 billion of its Series 2000 A Transition Bonds and on March 1, 2001, PETT issued $805 million of its Series 2001 A Transition Bonds to refinance a portion of the Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. The Transition Bonds are solely obligations of PETT secured by intangible transition property, representing the right to collect transition charges sufficient to pay the principal and interest on the Transition Bonds. PECO Energy Capital Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of PECO, is the sole general partner of PECO Energy Capital, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (Partnership). The Partnership was created solely for the purpose of issuing preferred securities, representing limited partnership interests and lending the proceeds thereof to PECO and entering into similar financing arrangements. The loans to PECO are evidenced by PECOs deferrable interest subordinated debentures (Subordinated Debentures), which are the only assets of the Partnership. The only revenues of the Partnership are interest on the Subordinated Debentures. All of the operating expenses of the Partnership are paid by PECO Energy Capital Corp. As of December 31, 2003, the Partnership held $78 million aggregate principal amount of the Subordinated Debentures. 30 Table of Contents PECO Energy Capital Trust II (Trust II) was created in June 1997 as a Delaware statutory trust solely for the purpose of issuing $50 million trust receipts (Trust II Receipts) each representing an 8.00% Cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Security, Series C (Series C Preferred Securities) of the Partnership. The Partnership is the sponsor of Trust II. In June 2003, Trust II redeemed all of its 8% trust preferred securities at a redemption price of $25 per trust receipt, plus accrued and unpaid distributions. The preferred securities were refinanced with trust preferred securities (see Trust IV below). PECO Energy Capital Trust III (Trust III) was created in April 1998 as a Delaware statutory trust solely for the purpose of issuing $78 million trust receipts (Trust III Receipts) each representing an 7.38% Cumulative Preferred Security, Series D (Series D Preferred Securities) of the Partnership. The Partnership is the sponsor of Trust III. As of December 31, 2003, Trust III had outstanding 78,105 Trust III Receipts. At December 31, 2003, the assets of Trust III consisted solely of 78,105 Series D Preferred Securities with an aggregate stated liquidation preference of $78 million. PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (Trust IV) was created in May 2003 as a Delaware statutory trust solely for the purpose of issuing $100 million trust preferred securities and common securities and purchasing the 5.75% deferrable interest subordinated debentures. PECO is the sole owner of all of the common securities of the Trust IV. The sole assets of Trust IV are $100 million principal amount of 5.75% subordinated debentures issued by PECO. Executive Officers of the Registrants at December 31, 2003 Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 58 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kingsley Jr., Oliver D. 61 President and Chief Operating Officer McLean, Ian P. 54 Executive Vice President Mehrberg, Randall E. 48 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Moler, Elizabeth A. 54 Executive Vice President Shapard, Robert S. 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Strobel, Pamela B. 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Bemis, Michael B. 56 Senior Vice President Snodgrass, S. Gary 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Hilzinger, Matthew F. 40 Vice President and Corporate Controller ComEd Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 58 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon, and Chair and Director Kingsley Jr., Oliver D. 61 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon, and Director Shapard, Robert S. 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Director Snodgrass, S. Gary 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, Exelon, and Director Bemis, Michael B. 56 President, Exelon Energy Delivery, and Director Clark, Frank M. 58 President and Director Mitchell, J. Barry 55 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer DesParte, Duane M. 40 Vice President and Controller 31 Table of Contents PECO Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 58 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon, and Director Kingsley Jr., Oliver D. 61 President, Exelon, and Director Shapard, Robert S. 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Director Bemis, Michael B. 56 President, Exelon Energy Delivery, and Director OBrien, Denis P. 43 President and Director Mitchell, J. Barry 55 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer DesParte, Duane M. 40 Vice President and Controller Generation Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 58 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon Kingsley Jr., Oliver D. 61 President, Exelon, and Chief Executive Officer and President Shapard, Robert S. 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon McLean, Ian P. 54 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and President, Power Team Mitchell, J. Barry 55 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer Skolds, John L. 53 Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President, Exelon Nuclear Young, John F. 47 Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President, Exelon Power Hilzinger, Matthew F. 40 Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon Each of the above was elected as an officer effective October 20, 2000, the closing date of the Merger, except for Randall E. Mehrberg, who was elected effective December 3, 2001, Matthew F. Hilzinger, who was elected effective April 15, 2002, Robert S. Shapard, who was elected effective October 21, 2002, Michael B. Bemis, who was elected effective August 12, 2002, John F. Young, who was elected effective March 3, 2003, and Duane M. DesParte, who was elected effective February 17, 2003. Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective companys board of directors until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Rowe was President and Co Chief Executive of Exelon, Co Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and President, Co Chief Executive Officer of PECO; Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and Unicom; and President and Chief Executive Officer of New England Electric System. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Kingsley was Executive Vice President of Exelon; Executive Vice President of ComEd and Unicom, President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Nuclear Generation Group of ComEd, and Chief Nuclear Officer of the Tennessee Valley Authority. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Senior Vice President of Exelon; President of the Power Team division of PECO; and Group Vice President of Engelhard Corporation. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mehrberg was Senior Vice President of Exelon; an equity partner with the law firm of Jenner & Block; and General Counsel and Lakefront Director of the Chicago Park District. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Moler was Senior Vice President, Government Affairs and Policy of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Director of Unicom and ComEd; Partner at the law firm of Vinson & Elkins, LLP; Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy; and Chair of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 32 Table of Contents Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Shapard was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Covanta Energy Corporation; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ultramar Diamond Shamrock; Chief Executive Officer of TSU Australia, Ltd., and Vice President, Finance and Treasurer at TXU. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Strobel was Vice Chairman of ComEd; Vice Chairman of PECO; Executive Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd and Unicom; Senior Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Bemis was Chief Executive Officer of Entergys London Electricity PLC; and Chairman and CEO of Master Graphics, Inc. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Snodgrass was Chief Administrative Officer of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President of USG Corporation. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Credit Acceptance Corporation; Vice President, Controller of Kmart Corporation; Divisional Vice President, Strategic Planning and Financial Reporting of Kmart Corporation; Assistant Treasurer of Kmart Corporation; and Divisional Vice President, Logistics Finance and Planning of Kmart Corporation. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Clark was Senior Vice President, Distribution Customer and Marketing Services and External Affairs of ComEd; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd; Governmental Affairs Vice President; and Governmental Affairs Manager. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mitchell was Vice President and Treasurer of Exelon; and Vice President, Treasury and Evaluation, and Treasurer of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. DesParte was Partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP; and Partner at Arthur Andersen LLP. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. OBrien was Executive Vice President of PECO; Vice President of Operations of PECO; Director of Transmission and Substations of PECO; and Director of BucksMont Region of PECO. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Skolds was Chief Operating Officer of Exelon Nuclear; and President and Chief Operating Officer of South Carolina Electric and Gas. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Young was Senior Vice President of Sierra Pacific Resources Corporation; President of Avalon Consulting; and Executive Vice President of Southern Generation. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Energy Delivery The electric substations and a portion of the transmission rights of way of ComEd and PECO are owned in fee. A significant portion of the electric transmission and distribution facilities is located over or under highways, streets, other public places or property owned by others, for which permits, grants, easements or licenses, deemed satisfactory by ComEd and PECO, respectively, but without examination of underlying land titles, have been obtained. Transmission and Distribution Energy Deliverys higher voltage electric transmission and distribution lines owned and in service at December 31, 2003 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles ComEd 765,000345,000138,000 902,5802,808 PECO 500,000220,000132,00066,000 297499229167 33 Table of Contents ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,400 circuit miles of overhead lines and 31,700 circuit miles of underground lines. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,900 circuit miles of overhead lines and 8,327 circuit miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2003: Pipeline Miles Transmission 31 Distribution 6,363 Service piping 5,250 Total 11,644 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania which has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. Mortgages The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first mortgage bonds are issued. Insurance ComEd and PECO maintain property insurance against loss or damage to Energy Deliverys properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. ComEd and PECO are self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd or PECO. 34 Table of Contents Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2003: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (1) Primary Fuel Type Dispatch Type Net GenerationCapacity(MW) (2) Nuclear (3) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,388 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,364 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,030 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,742 LaSalle County Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,309 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,131 (4) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,303 (4) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 942 (4) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp., PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,959 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (4) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Base load 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 250 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Base load 581 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Fore River Weymouth, MA 1 Gas Intermediate 688 Handley 1,2,4,5 Fort Worth, TX 4 Gas Peaking 1,041 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 400 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 358 (4) Mountain Creek 2, 3, 6, 7 Dallas, TX 4 Gas Peaking 343 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 550 Mystic 7 Everett, MA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 555 (5) Mystic 8, 9 Everett, MA 2 Gas Intermediate 1,600 New Boston 1 South Boston, MA 1 Gas Intermediate 353 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (4) 8,438 (continued on next page) 35 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (1) Primary Fuel Type Dispatch Type Net GenerationCapacity(MW) (2) Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 384 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 30 LaPorte LaPorte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 160 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil Peaking 110 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Mystic Everett, MA 1 Oil Peaking 8 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Gas Peaking 13 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (4) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 South East Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 312 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,474 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (4) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (4) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 536 Muddy Run Lancaster Co., PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,072 1,608 Total 136 28,492 (1) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (2) For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (3) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (4) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. (5) In December 2003, the ISO New England granted permission for Exelon New England to cease operations at Mystic 4, 5, 6. The net generating capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For information regarding nuclear insurance and fossil and hydroelectric business interruption insurance, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. Generation is self insured to 36 Table of Contents the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ComEd Retail Rate Law. In 1996, several developers of non utility generating facilities filed litigation against various Illinois officials claiming that the enforcement against those facilities of an amendment to Illinois law removing the entitlement of those facilities to state subsidized payments for electricity sold to ComEd after March 15, 1996 violated their rights under the Federal and state constitutions. The developers also filed suit against ComEd for a declaratory judgment that their rights under their contracts with ComEd were not affected by the amendment and for breach of contract. On November 25, 2002, the court granted the developers motions for summary judgment. The judge also entered a permanent injunction enjoining ComEd from refusing to pay the retail rate on the grounds of the amendment, and Illinois from denying ComEd a tax credit on account of such purchases. ComEd and Illinois have each appealed the ruling. ComEd believes that it did not breach the contracts in question and that the damages claimed far exceed any loss that any project incurred by reason of its ineligibility for the subsidized rate. ComEd intends to prosecute its appeal and defend each case vigorously. While ComEd cannot currently predict the outcome of this action, ComEd does not believe that it will have a material adverse impact on ComEds results of operations. PECO and Generation Real Estate Tax Appeals. PECO and Generation are each challenging real estate taxes assessed on nuclear plants since 1997. PECO is involved in litigation in which it is contesting taxes assessed in 1997 under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Realty Tax Act of March 4, 1971, as amended (PURTA) and has appealed local real estate assessments for 1998 and 1999 on the Limerick Generating Station (Montgomery County, PA) (Limerick) and Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station (York County, PA) (Peach Bottom) plants. Generation is involved in real estate tax appeals for 2000 through 2003, also regarding the valuation of its Limerick and Peach Bottom plants, its Quad Cities Station (Rock Island County, IL) and, through AmerGen, TMI (Dauphin County, PA). During the third quarter of 2003, upon completion of updated nuclear plant appraisal studies, PECO and Generation recorded reductions of $58 million and $15 million, respectively, to reserves recorded for exposures associated with the real estate taxes. While PECO and Generation believe the resulting reserve balances as of December 31, 2003 reflect the most likely probable expected outcome of the litigation and appeals proceedings in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in additional unfavorable or favorable adjustments to the consolidated financial statements of PECO or Generation, and such adjustments could be material. Generation Cotter Corporation Litigation. During 1989 and 1991, actions were brought in Federal and state courts in Colorado against ComEd and its subsidiary, Cotter Corporation (Cotter), seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief based on allegations that Cotter permitted radioactive and other hazardous material to be released from its mill into areas owned or occupied by the plaintiffs, resulting in property damage and potential adverse health effects. Several of these actions resulted in nominal jury verdicts or were settled or dismissed. One action resulted in an award for the plaintiffs for a more substantial amount, but was reversed on April 22, 2003 by the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals and remanded for retrial. An appeal by the plaintiffs to the United States Supreme Court was denied on November 10, 2003. No date has been set for a new trial. On February 18, 2000, ComEd sold Cotter to an unaffiliated third party. As part of the sale, ComEd agreed to indemnify Cotter for any liability incurred by Cotter as a result of these actions, as well as any liability arising 37 Table of Contents in connection with the West Lake Landfill discussed in the next paragraph. In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, the responsibility to indemnify Cotter for any liability related to these matters was transferred by ComEd to Generation. Generation cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the cases. The EPA has advised Cotter that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. Cotter is alleged to have disposed of approximately 39,000 tons of soils mixed with 8,700 tons of leached barium sulfate at the site. Cotter and three other companies identified by the EPA as PRPs have submitted a draft feasibility study addressing options for remediation of the site. The PRPs are also engaged in discussions with the State of Missouri and the EPA. The estimated costs of remediation for the site range from $0 to $87 million. Once a remedy is selected, it is expected that the PRPs will agree on an allocation of responsibility for the costs. Until an agreement is reached, Generation cannot predict its share of the costs, and, as such, no amounts have been accrued as of December 31, 2003. Raytheon and Mitsubishi Litigation. In May 2002, Raytheon Corporation (Raytheon) filed an arbitration against Sithe Fore River Development, LLC (now Fore River Development, LLC) in the International Chamber of Commerce Court of Arbitration (Arbitration Court). Raytheon is seeking equitable relief and damages totaling over $45 million for alleged owner caused performance delays and force majeure events in connection with the Fore River Power Plant Engineering, Procurement & Construction Agreement (EPC Agreement). The EPC Agreement, executed by a Raytheon subsidiary and guaranteed by Raytheon, governed the design, engineering, construction, start up, testing and delivery of an 800 MW combined cycle power plant in Weymouth, Massachusetts. Hearings by the Arbitration Court with respect to liability were held in January and February 2003. On May 12, 2003, the Arbitration Court issued an interim order finding in favor of Raytheon on liability, but limited the grounds upon which Raytheon could claim schedule and cost relief. The Arbitration Court ordered the parties to proceed to a damages phase to determine what, if any, damages Raytheon may recover. Hearings by the Arbitration Court with respect to damages were conducted in June and July 2003 and a final decision is expected in the first quarter of 2004. In a related proceeding, on October 2, 2003, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, LTD (MHI) and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries of America (MHIA) filed an action in the New York Supreme Court against Fore River Development, LLC and Mystic Development, LLC (collectively, the Project Companies) seeking to enjoin these indirect subsidiaries of Generation from drawing upon letters of credit posted to guarantee MHIs performance under certain gas turbine contracts. MHI and MHIA also is seeking $34 million from these entities in connection with work performed on these contracts. The Project Companies filed a third party complaint against Raytheon, claiming that Raytheon was responsible for the MHI and MHIA contracts. On August 29, 2003, Raytheon filed an action against the Project Companies and BNP Paribas in the Massachusetts Superior Court (Superior Court) alleging that the Project Companies and BNP Paribas had failed to provide adequate assurance that Raytheon would be paid the remaining amounts due under the Fore River and Mystic EPC contracts. Raytheon is seeking: (1) an injunction preventing the Project Companies and BNP Paribas from drawing upon certain letters of credit guaranteeing Raytheons performance; (2) the right to terminate the construction contracts; and (3) an order allowing Raytheon to seize project funds totaling approximately $40 million. Raytheon subsequently dismissed BNP Paribas from the litigation. On November 25, 2003, the Massachusetts Superior Court dismissed Raytheons claims in Massachusetts holding that Raytheons claims should have been brought in the New York Supreme Court proceeding. As a result of this decision, all of the litigation was transferred and consolidated into the New York Supreme Court action and all parties have moved for summary judgment. The court has not yet issued any decision. Clean Air Act. On June 1, 2001, the EPA issued to a subsidiary of the Company a Notice of Violation (NOV) and Reporting Requirement pursuant to Sections 113 and 114 of the Clean Air Act. The NOV alleges numerous exceedances of opacity limits and violations of opacity related monitoring, recording and reporting requirements at Mystic Station in Everett, Massachusetts. On January 8, 2002, the EPA indicated that it had decided to resolve the NOV through an administrative compliance order and a judicial civil penalty action. In 38 Table of Contents March 2002, the EPA issued and Mystic I, LLC, doing business as Mystic Generating (formerly known as Exelon Mystic Generating, LLC) (Mystic), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, voluntarily entered a Compliance Order and Reporting Requirement (Order) regarding Mystic Station. Under the Order, Mystic Station installed new ignition equipment on three of the four units at the plant. Mystic Station also undertook an extensive opacity monitoring and testing program for all four units at the plant to help determine if additional compliance measures are needed. Pursuant to the requirements of the Order, the subsidiary switched three of the four units to a lower sulfur fuel oil by September 1, 2002. The Order did not address civil penalties. By letter dated April 21, 2003, the United States Department of Justice notified the subsidiary that, at the request of the EPA, it intended to bring a civil penalty action, but also offered the opportunity to resolve the matter through settlement discussions. Mystic has entered into a consent decree with the EPA and the Department of Justice, the net discounted cost of which is approximately $4 million. The consent decree is subject to the approval of the United States District Court of the District of Massachusetts. General Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are involved in various other litigation matters that are being defended and handled in the ordinary course of business, and Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation maintain accruals for such costs that are probable of being incurred and subject to reasonable estimation. The ultimate outcome of such matters, as well as the matters discussed above, while uncertain, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on their respective financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation None. 39 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Exelon The information required by this Item with respect to market information relating to Exelons common stock is incorporated herein by reference to Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters in Exhibit 99 2 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 20, 2004. ComEd As of February 1, 2004, there were outstanding 127,016,494 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At February 1, 2004, in addition to Exelon, there were approximately 278 holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. PECO As of February 1, 2004, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Generation As of February 1, 2004, Exelon held 100% of the member interest in Generation. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Dividends Under applicable federal law, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2003, Exelon had retained earnings of $2.3 billion, which includes ComEds retained earnings of $883 million (of which $709 million had been appropriated for future dividends), PECOs retained earnings of $546 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $602 million. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends paid during 2003 and 2002: 2003 2002 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.50 $ 0.50 $ 0.46 $ 0.46 $ 0.44 $ 0.44 $ 0.44 $ 0.44 The following table sets forth ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments and Generations quarterly distributions: 2003 2002 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter ComEd $ 95 $ 95 $ 90 $ 121 $ 117 $ 118 $ 117 $ 118 PECO 79 79 75 90 85 85 85 85 Generation 73 71 45 40 Table of Contents On January 27, 2004, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.55 per share on Exelons common stock. The January 2004 declaration equates to an annual dividend rate of $2.20 per share. Payment of future dividends is subject to approval and declaration by the Board. On January 27, 2004, the Exelon Board of Directors approved a 2 for 1 stock split of Exelons common stock, effective upon receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals and the filing of an amendment to Exelons articles of incorporation. The share and per share amounts in this Form 10 K do not reflect the stock split. ComEd may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities which were issued to ComEd Financing II and ComEd Financing III (the Financing Trusts); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of the Financing Trusts; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities). As of December 31, 2003, ComEd had appropriated $709 million of retained earnings for future dividend payments. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2003, such capital was $2.5 billion and amounted to about 29 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to the Partnership or Trust IV; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of Trust IV or the Series D Preferred Securities of the Partnership; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities). ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Selected Financial Data in Exhibit 99 1 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 20, 2004. ComEd The selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 herein. ComEd was the principal subsidiary of Unicom Corporation (Unicom) prior to the merger with Exelon (Merger) on October 20, 2000 (Merger Date). The Merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The effects of the purchase method were reflected in the consolidated financial statements of ComEd as of the Merger Date. Accordingly, ComEds consolidated financial statements presented for the period after the Merger reflect a new basis of accounting. 41 Table of Contents The information for the year ended 2000 is presented for the periods before and after the Merger. For the Years Ended December 31, Oct. 20 Dec. 312000 Jan. 1 Oct. 192000 For the YearEndedDecember 31, 1999 (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ 1,310 $ 5,702 $ 6,793 Operating income 1,567 1,766 1,594 338 1,048 1,549 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 702 790 607 133 599 623 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) 5 Net income $ 707 $ 790 $ 607 $ 133 $ 599 $ 623 Net income on common stock $ 707 $ 790 $ 607 $ 133 $ 596 $ 599 December 31, (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,313 $ 1,049 $ 1,025 $ 2,172 $ 4,045 Property, plant and equipment, net 9,096 8,689 8,243 8,499 12,795 Goodwill, net 4,719 4,916 4,902 4,766 Regulatory assets, net 268 524 Other deferred debits and other assets 2,823 1,662 1,682 4,493 5,212 Total assets $ 17,951 $ 16,316 $ 15,852 $ 20,198 $ 22,576 Current liabilities $ 1,557 $ 2,023 $ 1,797 $ 1,723 $ 3,427 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (1) 5,887 5,268 5,850 6,882 6,962 Regulatory liabilities 1,891 486 225 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,274 2,451 2,568 5,082 6,456 Mandatorily redeemable preference stock 69 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (1) 330 329 328 350 Shareholders equity 6,342 5,758 5,083 6,183 5,312 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 17,951 $ 16,316 $ 15,852 $ 20,198 $ 22,576 (1) Upon adoption of FIN No. 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to affiliates as of December 31, 2003. 42 Table of Contents PECO The selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 herein. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 4,388 $ 4,333 $ 3,965 $ 5,950 $ 5,478 Operating income 1,056 1,093 999 1,222 1,373 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 473 486 425 483 582 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) 24 Net income $ 473 $ 486 $ 425 $ 507 $ 582 Net income on common stock $ 468 $ 478 $ 415 $ 497 $ 570 December 31, (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 632 $ 927 $ 813 $ 1,779 $ 1,221 Property, plant and equipment, net 4,256 4,159 4,039 5,138 4,982 Noncurrent regulatory assets 5,226 5,546 5,774 6,046 6,094 Other deferred debits and other assets 232 88 112 1,813 790 Total assets $ 10,346 $ 10,720 $ 10,738 $ 14,776 $ 13,087 Current liabilities $ 742 $ 1,538 $ 1,335 $ 2,974 $ 1,286 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (1) 5,239 4,951 5,438 6,002 5,969 Deferred credits and other liabilities 3,349 3,342 3,358 3,860 3,738 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (1) 128 128 128 128 Mandatorily redeemable preferred stock 19 37 56 Shareholders equity 1,016 761 460 1,775 1,910 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 10,346 $ 10,720 $ 10,738 $ 14,776 $ 13,087 (1) Upon adoption of FIN No. 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to affiliates as of December 31, 2003. 43 Table of Contents Generation The selected consolidated financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 herein. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 3,274 $ 2,425 Operating income (loss) (194 ) 509 872 441 300 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (241 ) 387 512 260 204 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) 108 13 12 Net income (loss) $ (133 ) $ 400 $ 524 $ 260 $ 204 December 31, (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,553 $ 1,805 $ 1,435 $ 1,793 $ 395 Property, plant and equipment, net 7,106 4,698 2,003 1,727 990 Deferred debits and other assets 5,105 4,402 4,700 4,742 907 Total assets $ 14,764 $ 10,905 $ 8,138 $ 8,262 $ 2,292 Current liabilities $ 3,564 $ 2,594 $ 1,097 $ 2,176 $ 404 Long term debt 1,649 2,132 1,021 205 209 Deferred credits and other liabilities 6,592 3,226 3,212 3,271 729 Minority interest 3 54 Members equity 2,956 2,899 2,808 2,610 950 Total liabilities and members equity $ 14,764 $ 10,905 $ 8,138 $ 8,262 $ 2,292 The consolidated financial statements of Generation as of December 31, 2000 and for the year then ended present the financial position, results of operations and net cash flows of the generation related business of Exelon prior to its corporate restructuring on January 1, 2001. Generation operated as a separate business subsequent to electric industry restructuring in Pennsylvania effective January 1, 1999. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 20, 2004. ComEd, PECO and Generation The Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncement sections presented below indicate the registrant or registrants to which each policy, estimate or accounting standard is applicable. We or Our as utilized in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncements sections is defined as the registrant or registrants identified in each subheading. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the following areas require significant management judgment regarding the application of an accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions to account for matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods: accounting for derivative instruments, regulatory assets and liabilities, nuclear decommissioning, depreciable lives of property, plant and equipment, asset impairments including goodwill, severance accounting, defined benefit pension and other postretirement welfare benefits, taxation, unbilled energy revenues and environmental costs. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (ComEd, PECO and Generation) We generally account for derivative financial instruments on our balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception or unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. How such instruments are classified affects how they are reported in our financial statements. If the normal purchases and normal sales exception applies, then gains and losses are recognized when the underlying physical transaction affects earnings. If the derivative qualifies as a cash flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. If neither applies, then changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized in our earnings. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon our assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery, which is based on internal models that forecast customer demand and electricity supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. Significant changes in these assumptions could result in these contracts not qualifying for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires us to determine that the contract is in accordance with our Risk Management Policy, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the 45 Table of Contents effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. We reassess these cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. At the point in time that the contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and the fair value of the derivative is recorded through earnings. As a part of our accounting for derivatives, we make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the changes in the fair value we expect in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. We use quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, we use internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific energy market the energy is being purchased in using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. We use the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. To determine the fair value of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements we use external broker quotes or calculate the fair value internally using the Bloomberg swap valuation tool. This tool uses the most recent market inputs and is a widely accepted valuation methodology. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities (ComEd and PECO) We account for our regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71), which requires us to reflect the effects of rate regulation in our financial statements. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to our utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2003, we have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If we conclude in a future period that a separable portion of our business no longer meets the criteria, we are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of our business, which would include the elimination of any regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to our financial statements as a one time extraordinary item and through impacts on continuing operations. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for ComEd and PECO for further information regarding regulatory issues. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. As of December 31, 2003, ComEd had recorded $1.9 billion of net regulatory liabilities, and PECO had recorded $5.3 billion of net regulatory assets within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for ComEd and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for PECO for further information regarding their significant regulatory assets and liabilities. For each regulatory jurisdiction where we conduct business, we continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. The electric businesses of both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Because our current rates include the recovery of existing regulatory assets and liabilities and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow us to earn a 46 Table of Contents reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the states where we do business but is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could impact ComEd or PECOs ability to pay dividends under PUHCA and state law. Nuclear Decommissioning (ComEd, PECO and Generation) We account for our obligation to decommission our nuclear generating plants under SFAS No. 143 which requires that we make significant estimates of decommissioning costs to be incurred in future periods. We adopted SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003, and ComEd and Generation recorded income of $5 million and $108 million (net of income taxes), respectively, as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. The adoption of SFAS No. 143 had no impact on PECOs net income. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 10 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Upon the adoption of SFAS No. 143, we were required to estimate the fair value of our obligation for the future decommissioning of our nuclear generating plants. To estimate the fair value of the decommissioning obligation, we used a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. Key assumptions used in the determination of fair value included the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. We used decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of costs and the timing of retirement activities validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Annual Cost Escalation Studies. Annual cost escalation studies were used to determine escalation factors based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Our probabilistic cash flow models included the assignment of probabilities to various cost levels and various timing scenarios. The probability of various timing scenarios incorporated the factors of current license lives and life extensions and the timing of Department of Energy (DOE) acceptance for disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Discount Rates. The estimated probability weighted cash flows using these various scenarios were discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses. Changes in the assumptions underlying the items discussed above could have materially affected the decommissioning obligation recorded upon the adoption of SFAS No. 143 and future costs related to decommissioning recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on an ongoing basis as the model input factors change. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (ComEd, PECO and Generation) We have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, depreciation estimates are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Effective July 1, 2002, ComEd decreased its depreciation rates based on a depreciation study, resulting in an annualized reduction in depreciation expense of $96 million. Effective April 1, 2001, Generation extended the estimated service lives of certain non AmerGen generating 47 Table of Contents stations primarily based on service life extensions applied for with regulatory agencies, resulting in an annualized reduction in depreciation expense of $132 million. We anticipate extending the depreciable lives of the AmerGen stations beginning in January, 2004 concurrent with our initial full month of 100% ownership. Additional changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation charged to the financial statements. Depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $308 million, $130 million, and $186 million for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. Asset Impairments Long Lived Assets and Investments (ComEd, PECO and Generation). We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows. A variation in an assumption could result in a different conclusion regarding the realizability of the asset. The potential impact of recognizing an impairment of the assets reported within the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as on net income, could be and has been material to our consolidated financial statements. In 2003, Generation recorded an impairment charge of $945 million (before income taxes) related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Generation, due to its decision to transition out of its ownership of Boston Generating. See Note 2 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In determining the amount of the impairment charge, Generation compared the carrying value of Boston Generatings long lived assets to their estimated fair value. The fair value was determined using estimated future discounted cash flows from those assets, which incorporated assumptions relative to the period of time that Generation will continue to own and operate Boston Generating. The time required to fully transition out of ownership of Boston Generating is uncertain and subject to change. Generation utilized a discount rate based upon valuations of the business developed at the purchase date. A change in the assumptions, including estimated cash flows and the discount rate, could have had a significant impact on the amount of the impairment charge recorded. In 2003, Generation recorded impairment charges totaling $255 million (before income taxes) associated with a decline in the fair value of Generations investment in Sithe. In reaching that decision, Generation considered various factors, including negotiations to sell its investment in Sithe, which indicated an other than temporary decline in fair value. In 2003, ComEd and PECO did not identify any factors through their review processes that indicated potential material impairment of property plant and equipment or other long lived assets. Goodwill (ComEd). ComEd had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2003. ComEd performs an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. We performed our annual assessment of potential ComEd goodwill impairment for 2003 as of November 1, 2003, and determined that goodwill was not impaired. In our assessment, to estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit, we used a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The determination of the fair value is dependent on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, market power prices, post 2006 rate regulatory structures, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors. Changes in these variables or in how they interrelate could result in a future impairment of goodwill at ComEd, which 48 Table of Contents could be material. For example, in the 2003 assessment, if estimated discounted cash flows had decreased by 5%, ComEd would have recorded a goodwill impairment of approximately $500 million. Furthermore, based on certain anticipated reductions to cash flows subsequent to ComEds regulatory transition period (primarily CTCs), we believe there is a reasonable possibility that goodwill will be impaired at ComEd in 2004 or future years, and such impairment may be significant. The actual timing and amounts of goodwill impairments in future years, if any, will depend on the variables discussed above. A goodwill impairment charge at ComEd may not affect Exelons results of operations as the goodwill impairment test for Exelon would consider cash flows of the entire Energy Delivery business segment, including both ComEd and PECO, and not just of ComEd. Severance Accounting (ComEd, PECO and Generation) As part of the implementation of The Exelon Way, we identified approximately 1,500 positions for elimination by the end of 2004, including 729, 166, and 470 positions at ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. We provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with us and compensation level. We recorded charges in 2003 related to severance benefits that were considered probable and could be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in calculating the severance charge was the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. We based our estimates on our current plans and our ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate the businesses. We are considering whether there are additional positions to be eliminated in 2005 and 2006. We may incur further severance costs associated with The Exelon Way if additional positions are identified for elimination. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to substantially all ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC employees and certain Enterprises employees. See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement for further information regarding the accounting for our defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation, and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, we utilize assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increase and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating 2003 pension cost was 9.00% compared to 9.50% for 2002 and 2001. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating 2003 other postretirement benefit costs was 8.40% compared to 8.80% for 2002 and 2001. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index was used as the basis in selecting the discount rate for determining the plan obligations, using 6.25% at December 31, 2003 compared to 6.75% at December 31, 2002 and 7.35% at December 31, 2001. The reduction in discount rate is due to the decline in Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index in 2003 and 2002. 49 Table of Contents The following tables illustrate the aggregate effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above: Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected BenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2003 Impact on Pension Liability atDecember 31, 2003 Impact on 2004 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 548 $ 481 $ 37 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 34 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other PostretirementBenefit Obligation at December 31, 2003 Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability at December 31, 2003 Impact on 2004PostretirementBenefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 178 $ $ 20 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 5 The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during our annual review process and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension amounts and funding requirements could also change. ComEd, PECO and Generation incurred approximately $131 million, $57 million and $112 million, respectively, of pension and postretirement benefit costs in 2003, inclusive of curtailment costs associated with The Exelon Way of $48 million, $10 million, and $18 million, respectively. Although 2004 pension and postretirement benefit costs will depend on market conditions, Exelons estimate is that its pension and postretirement benefit costs, in the aggregate, will not change significantly in 2004 as compared to 2003. Taxation (ComEd, PECO and Generation) ComEd, PECO and Generation are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and our ongoing operations to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that we have taken. Generation must also assess its ability to generate capital gains in future periods to realize tax benefits associated with capital losses expected to be generated in future periods. Capital losses may be deducted only to the extent of capital gains realized during the year of the loss or during the three prior or five succeeding years. As of December 31, 2003, Generation has not recorded an allowance against its deferred tax assets associated with impairment losses which will become capital losses when realized for income tax purposes. Generation believes these deferred tax assets will be realized in future periods. While we believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2003 reflect the most likely probable expected outcome of these tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, and SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in additional adjustments to our consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Unbilled Energy Revenues (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to the sale of energy by ComEd and PECO are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month since the date of the last meter reading are 50 Table of Contents estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2003 include unbilled energy revenues of $225 million and $143 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total revenues would remain unchanged. Revenues related to Generations sale of energy are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month and corresponding unbilled revenue are recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand, fixed quantity sales, generation volume and applicable market or fixed rates. Generations customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2003 include unbilled energy revenues of $366 million. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Environmental Costs (ComEd, PECO and Generation) As of December 31, 2003, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $69 million, $50 million and $10 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which we will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where timing and costs of expenditures can be reliably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts represent $64 million and $41 million of the accrued liabilities above for ComEd and PECO, respectively. Where timing and amounts cannot be reliably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $5 million, $9 million, and $10 million of the accrued liabilities total for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology, regulations or the requirements of local governmental authorities. 51 Table of Contents ComEd Executive Summary 2003 has been a year of operating accomplishments. ComEd has focused on living up to its reliability and safety commitments while pursuing greater productivity, quality and innovation. Here are just a few of the 2003 highlights: Financial Results. ComEd experienced an overall decline in net income of 11% in 2003. This decline was primarily due to lower operating revenues as a result of unfavorable weather and customers purchasing energy from an ARES or PPO and higher operating and maintenance expense including the costs associated with implementing The Exelon Way. ComEds 2003 results were favorably affected by lower depreciation and amortization expense, lower purchased power expense and lower interest expense. The Exelon Way. ComEd implemented The Exelon Way, an aggressive, long term operational plan defining how ComEd will conduct business in years to come. The Exelon Way is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. ComEd recorded severance and severance related after tax charges during 2003 associated with the implementation of The Exelon Way and is considering whether it will incur additional severance related costs in future periods. Investment Strategy. ComEd continued to invest in its infrastructure spending over $700 million in 2003 and expects to invest over $600 million in 2004. Financing Activities. ComEd issued debt and equity securities to refinance approximately $1.7 billion and repaid approximately $260 million of outstanding debt, approximately $340 million of transitional trust notes and $52 million of commercial paper in 2003, resulting in annual interest savings of $65 million. ComEd met all of its capital resource commitments with internally generated cash and expects to do so in the foreseeable future. Operational Achievements. ComEds business focused on the core fundamentals of providing reliable delivery service. Following several years of continued reliability improvement, ComEds performance dipped slightly in 2003 due to a series of severe storms across Northern Illinois two of which were the worst since 1998. Outlook for 2004 and Beyond. In the short term, ComEds financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including weather conditions and successful implementation of The Exelon Way. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, operating revenues at ComEd generally will be favorably affected. In addition, ComEd is required annually to assess its goodwill to determine if it is impaired. Based on certain anticipated reductions to cash flows subsequent to the transition period (primarily competitive transition charges), ComEd believes there is a reasonable possibility that goodwill may be impaired in 2004 or future periods, and such impairment may be significant. Longer term, restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, with continuing debate at the FERC on regional transmission organization (RTO) and standard market platform issues and in many states on the post transition format. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (like California), some states are adjusting current transition plans (like New Jersey and Ohio) and the state of Illinois (by 2007) is considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. ComEd will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations and controlling costs. As ComEd nears the end of the restructuring transition period and related rate freeze in Illinois, ComEd will also continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured 52 Table of Contents electricity markets. ComEd will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements ComEd has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. ComEd will also work to ensure that its rates adequately compensate its suppliers, which could include Generation, for the costs associated with procuring full load following capacity energy supplies given ComEds Provider of Last Resort (POLR) obligations. As in the past, by working together with all interested parties, ComEd believes it can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers. However, if ComEd is unsuccessful, its results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected after the transition period. While the U.S. economic recovery appears underway, ComEds current plans are based on moderate kilowatthour sales growth (1% to 2%). Successful implementation of The Exelon Way is needed to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. ComEds stable base of over three million customers will provide a solid platform with which to meet these challenges. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Significant Operating Trends ComEd 2003 2002 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ (310 ) (5.1 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 2,501 2,585 (84 ) (3.2 )% Operating and maintenance 1,093 964 129 13.4 % Depreciation and amortization 386 522 (136 ) (26.1 )% Taxes other than income 267 287 (20 ) (7.0 )% Total operating expense 4,247 4,358 (111 ) (2.5 )% OPERATING INCOME 1,567 1,766 (199 ) (11.3 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (423 ) (484 ) 61 (12.6 )% Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (26 ) (30 ) 4 (13.3 )% Other, net 49 44 5 11.4 % Total other income and deductions (400 ) (470 ) 70 (14.9 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,167 1,296 (129 ) (10.0 )% INCOME TAXES 465 506 (41 ) (8.1 )% INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 702 790 (88 ) (11.1 )% CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE, (net of income taxes) 5 5 n.m. NET INCOME $ 707 $ 790 $ (83 ) (10.5 )% n.m. not meaningful Net Income Net income was affected by lower operating revenues primarily due to unfavorable weather and customers purchasing energy from an ARES or PPO and higher operating and maintenance expense, partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense, lower purchased power expense and lower interest expense. 53 Table of Contents Operating Revenues ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) (1) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Bundled deliveries (2) Residential 26,206 27,474 (1,268 ) (4.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 21,541 22,365 (824 ) (3.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 5,921 7,885 (1,964 ) (24.9 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 5,125 6,480 (1,355 ) (20.9 )% 58,793 64,204 (5,411 ) (8.4 )% Unbundled deliveries (3) ARES Small commercial & industrial 6,006 5,219 787 15.1 % Large commercial & industrial 9,909 7,095 2,814 39.7 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,402 912 490 53.7 % 17,317 13,226 4,091 30.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 3,318 3,152 166 5.3 % Large commercial & industrial 4,348 5,131 (783 ) (15.3 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 1,925 1,347 578 42.9 % 9,591 9,630 (39 ) (0.4 )% Total unbundled deliveries 26,908 22,856 4,052 17.7 % Total retail deliveries 85,701 87,060 (1,359 ) (1.6 )% (1) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWhs. (2) Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (3) Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 54 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Bundled revenues (1) Residential $ 2,272 $ 2,381 $ (109 ) (4.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,667 1,736 (69 ) (4.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 304 410 (106 ) (25.9 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 316 377 (61 ) (16.2 )% 4,559 4,904 (345 ) (7.0 )% Unbundled Revenues (2) ARES Small commercial & industrial 139 138 1 0.7 % Large commercial & industrial 175 154 21 13.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 33 28 5 17.9 % 347 320 27 8.4 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 225 204 21 10.3 % Large commercial & industrial 240 278 (38 ) (13.7 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 103 71 32 45.1 % 568 553 15 2.7 % Total unbundled revenues 915 873 42 4.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,474 5,777 (303 ) (5.2 )% Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (3) 340 347 (7 ) (2.0 )% Total electric revenue $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ (310 ) (5.1 )% (1) Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2) Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC charge. (3) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues in 2003, as compared to 2002, were attributable to the following: Variance Weather $ (232 ) Customer choice (155 ) Rate changes (33 ) Volume 105 Other effects 12 Retail revenue $ (303 ) Weather. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. The weather impact for the year ended December 31, 2003 was unfavorable compared to the same period in 2002 as a result of cooler summer weather in 2003. Cooling degree days decreased 36% in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the same period in 2002 and were partially offset by a 5% increase in heating degree days in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the same period in 2002. 55 Table of Contents Customer Choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd. However, as of December 31, 2003, no ARES has sought approval from the ICC, and no electric utilities have chosen, to enter the ComEd residential market for the supply of electricity. The decrease in revenues reflects increased non residential customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the energy provided by alternative electric generation suppliers was 17,317 GWhs, or 20.2% of total retail deliveries, as compared to 13,226 GWhs, or 15.2%, for the year ended December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the number of retail customers that had elected to purchase energy from an ARES or the ComEd PPO was approximately 20,300 and 22,700, respectively, representing less than 1% of total customers in each year. Deliveries to such customers increased from 22,856 GWhs for the year ended December 31, 2002 to 26,908 GWhs for the year ended December 31, 2003, or from 26% to 31% of total annual retail deliveries. Rate Changes. The decrease in revenues attributable to rate changes reflects lower wholesale market prices in the first six months of 2003, which were partially offset by higher wholesale market prices in the last six months of 2003, decreasing revenue received under ComEds PPO by $31 million. Starting in the June 2003 billing cycle, the increased wholesale market price of electricity, net of increased mitigation factors, as a result of the Agreement described in Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, decreased the collection of CTCs as compared to the respective period in 2002. However, for the two year period, CTC revenues were consistent. Volume. Revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of weather, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily large and small commercial and industrial. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the year ended December 31, 2002 decreased $7 million primarily due to a 2002 reimbursement from Generation of $12 million. Purchased Power Purchased power expense decreased in 2003 primarily due to a $135 million decrease as a result of customers choosing to purchase energy from an ARES, a $115 million decrease due to unfavorable weather and a $20 million decrease due to additional energy billed in 2002 under the PPA with Generation, partially offset by an increase of $74 million due to pricing changes related to ComEds PPA with Generation, an increase of $62 million under the PPA related to decommissioning collections associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 143 that were not included in purchased power in 2002 and an increase of $59 million due to higher volume. The $62 million increase in purchased power expense related to SFAS No. 143 had no impact on net income as it was offset by lower regulatory asset amortization expense (see Depreciation and Amortization below). Operating and Maintenance Operating and maintenance (O&M) expense increased in 2003 reflecting $137 million due to The Exelon Way severance and related postretirement health and welfare benefits accruals and pension and postretirement curtailment costs, a net charge of $41 million in 2003 as the result of the Agreement as more fully described in Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, $14 million of additional storm related costs and $7 million increase in employee fringe benefits partially offset by $78 million decrease in payroll expenses due to fewer employees and $6 million lower net manufactured gas plant (MGP) investigation and remediation reserve charges. 56 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased in 2003 as follows: 2003 2002 Variance % Change Depreciation expense $ 308 $ 334 $ (26 ) (7.8 )% Recoverable transition costs amortization 44 102 (58 ) (56.9 )% Other amortization expense 34 86 (52 ) (60.5 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 386 $ 522 $ (136 ) (26.1 )% The decrease in depreciation expense is primarily due to lower depreciation rates effective July 1, 2002, partially offset by higher property, plant and equipment balances. The lower rates followed completion of a depreciation study and reflect ComEds significant construction program in recent years, changes in and development of new technologies, and changes in estimated plant service lives since the last depreciation study. The reduction in depreciation expense was $48 million ($29 million, net of income taxes) in 2003 compared to 2002. Recoverable transition costs amortization decreased in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the same period in 2002. The decrease is a result of additional amortization in 2002. ComEd expects to fully recover its recoverable transition costs regulatory asset balance of $131 million by 2006. Consistent with the provision of the Illinois legislation, regulatory assets may be recovered at amounts that provide ComEd an earned return on common equity within the Illinois legislation earnings threshold. The decrease in other amortization primarily relates to the reclassification of a regulatory asset for nuclear decommissioning as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 143 in 2003 (see Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). This decrease had no impact on net income as it was offset by increased purchased power from Generation (see Purchased Power above). Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased in 2003 primarily as a result of a $25 million credit in 2003 for use tax payments for periods prior to the Merger and a $5 million refund in 2003 of Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes, partially offset by $8 million in Illinois Public Utility Fund taxes in 2003 that were not charged in 2002 and a $5 million real estate tax refund in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Interest charges decreased in 2003 due to the impact of lower interest rates as a result of refinancing existing debt at lower interest rates for 2003 as compared to 2002 and the pay down of $340 million in ComEd Transitional Trust Notes. Other, Net Other, net increased in 2003 as compared to 2002. In 2002, ComEd recorded a $12 million reserve accrual for a potential plant disallowance from an audit performed in conjunction with ComEds delivery services rate case. This $12 million was reversed in March 2003 as a result of the Agreement as more fully described in Note 2 to ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These items were partially offset by a $9 million reduction in intercompany interest income from Unicom Investments Inc., reflecting a lower principal balance, and a $10 million decrease in various other income and deduction items. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.8% in 2003 as compared to 39.0% in 2002. 57 Table of Contents Due to revenue needs of the states in which ComEd operates, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being contemplated. If these changes are enacted, they could increase ComEds state income tax expense. At this time, however, ComEd cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, and, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. As a result, ComEd cannot currently estimate the effect of these potential changes in tax laws or regulation. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle On January 1, 2003, ComEd adopted SFAS No. 143, resulting in income of $5 million, net of tax. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of SFAS No. 143. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends ComEd 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 2,585 2,670 (85 ) (3.2 )% Operating and maintenance 964 981 (17 ) (1.7 )% Depreciation and amortization 522 665 (143 ) (21.5 )% Taxes other than income 287 296 (9 ) (3.0 )% Total operating expense 4,358 4,612 (254 ) (5.5 )% OPERATING INCOME 1,766 1,594 172 10.8 % OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (484 ) (565 ) 81 (14.3 )% Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (30 ) (30 ) Other, net 44 114 (70 ) (61.4 )% Total other income and deductions (470 ) (481 ) 11 (2.3 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 1,296 1,113 183 16.4 % INCOME TAXES 506 506 NET INCOME $ 790 $ 607 $ 183 30.1 % Net Income Net income was primarily affected by the discontinuation of goodwill amortization, lower depreciation rates effective August 1, 2002, lower interest expense and a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by the effects of a 5% residential rate reduction effective October 1, 2001, customers electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO and lower intercompany interest income. 58 Table of Contents Operating Revenues ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled deliveries (1) Residential 27,474 25,282 2,192 8.7 % Small commercial & industrial 22,365 23,435 (1,070 ) (4.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 7,885 10,305 (2,420 ) (23.5 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 6,480 7,879 (1,399 ) (17.8 )% 64,204 66,901 (2,697 ) (4.0 )% Unbundled Deliveries (2) ARES Small commercial & industrial 5,219 2,865 2,354 82.2 % Large commercial & industrial 7,095 5,458 1,637 30.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 912 365 547 149.9 % 13,226 8,688 4,538 52.2 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 3,152 3,279 (127 ) (3.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 5,131 5,750 (619 ) (10.8 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 1,347 987 360 36.5 % 9,630 10,016 (386 ) (3.9 )% Total unbundled deliveries 22,856 18,704 4,152 22.2 % Total Retail Deliveries 87,060 85,605 1,455 1.7 % (1) Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2) Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 59 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Revenues (1) Residential $ 2,381 $ 2,308 $ 73 3.2 % Small commercial & industrial 1,736 1,821 (85 ) (4.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 410 523 (113 ) (21.6 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 377 430 (53 ) (12.3 )% 4,904 5,082 (178 ) (3.5 )% Unbundled Revenues (2) ARES Small commercial & industrial 138 48 90 187.5 % Large commercial & industrial 154 74 80 108.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 28 5 23 n.m. 320 127 193 152.0 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 204 220 (16 ) (7.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 278 343 (65 ) (19.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 71 59 12 20.3 % 553 622 (69 ) (11.1 )% Total unbundled revenues 873 749 124 16.6 % Total electric retail revenues 5,777 5,831 (54 ) (0.9 )% Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (3) 347 375 (28 ) (7.5 )% Total electric revenue $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% (1) Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2) Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC charge. (3) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. n.m. not meaningful The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer choice $ (131 ) Rate changes (99 ) Weather 88 Volume 91 Other effects (3 ) Retail revenue $ (54 ) Customer Choice. The decrease in revenues reflects customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 22,700 retail customers had elected to purchase energy from an ARES or the ComEd PPO, an increase from 18,700 customers at December 31, 2001. Deliveries to such customers increased from 18,704 GWhs in 2001 to 22,856 GWhs in 2002, a 22% increase from the previous year. 60 Table of Contents Rate Changes. The decrease attributable to rate changes reflects a 5% residential rate reduction, effective October 1, 2001, required by the Illinois restructuring legislation. Weather. The weather impact for 2002 was favorable compared to 2001 as a result of warmer summer weather and slightly colder winter weather in 2002 compared to 2001. Cooling degree days increased 29% and heating degree days increased 3% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of weather, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily residential. The reduction in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due primarily to a $38 million decrease in off system sales due to the expiration of wholesale contracts that were offered by ComEd from June 2000 to May 2001 to support the open access program in Illinois, and a $15 million reversal of reserve for revenue refunds in 2001 related to certain of ComEds municipal customers as a result of a favorable FERC ruling, partially offset by a reimbursement from Generation of $12 million for third party energy reconciliations and $13 million of other miscellaneous revenue. Purchased Power The decrease in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a $145 million decrease as a result of customers choosing to purchase energy from an ARES and a $34 million decrease due to the expiration of the wholesale contracts offered by ComEd to support the open access program in Illinois partially offset by a $41 million increase associated with increased retail demand due to favorable weather conditions, a $16 million increase due to the effects of increased weathernormalized volumes for residential and small commercial and industrial customers, an $18 million increase due to an increase in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost per MWh of electricity and $20 million in additional expense as a result of third party energy reconciliations. Operating and Maintenance The decrease in O&M expense is comprised of $32 million of lower payroll costs due to employee reductions, $16 million in cost reductions from Exelons Cost Management Initiative and $24 million miscellaneous other net positive impacts, partially offset by $25 million in additional employee benefit costs, a $16 million net increase in environmental and remediation expense and a $14 million increase in injuries and damages expense. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased in 2002 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Depreciation expense $ 334 $ 353 $ (19 ) (5.4 )% Recoverable transition costs amortization 102 108 (6 ) (5.6 )% Other amortization expense 86 204 (118 ) (57.8 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 522 $ 665 $ (143 ) (21.5 )% The decrease in depreciation expense is due to a $48 million decrease related to lower depreciation rates partially offset by the effect of higher in service property, plant and equipment balances. Recoverable transition costs amortization expense is determined using the expected period of the rate freeze and the expected returns in the periods under the rate freeze. The reduction in amortization expense in 2002 is due to the extension of the rate freeze in the second quarter of 2002. ComEd expects to fully recover these assets by the end of 2006. 61 Table of Contents The decrease in other amortization expense is primarily attributable to the discontinuation of amortization of goodwill as required by SFAS No. 142. During 2001, $126 million of goodwill was amortized. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased in 2002. The primary positive impact was the result of real estate tax refunds in the amount of $5 million. Interest Charges The decrease in interest charges was primarily attributable to the impact of lower interest rates for 2002 as compared to 2001, the early retirement of $196 million of First Mortgage Bonds in November of 2001, the retirement of $340 million in transitional trust notes during 2002, and $10 million of intercompany interest expense in 2001 relating to a payable in Generation, which was repaid during 2001. Other Income and Deductions The decrease in other income and deductions, excluding interest charges, was primarily attributable to $8 million in intercompany interest income relating to the $400 million receivable from PECO which was repaid during the second quarter of 2001, a $31 million reduction in intercompany interest income from Unicom Investment Inc., reflecting lower interest rates, $9 million in intercompany interest income from Generation in 2001 on the processing of certain invoice payments on behalf of Generation, a $12 million reserve for a potential plant disallowance resulting from an audit performed in conjunction with ComEds delivery services rate case, and an $10 million decrease in various other income and deductions items. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.0% in 2002, compared to 45.5% in 2001. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the discontinuation of goodwill amortization as of January 1, 2002, which was not deductible for income tax purposes, and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where ComEd no longer has access to external financing sources at reasonable terms, ComEd has access to a revolving credit facility that ComEd currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. As part of the implementation of The Exelon Way, ComEd identified 729 positions, including professional, managerial and union employees, for elimination by the end of 2004 and recorded a charge for salary continuance severance of $61 million before income taxes during 2003, which ComEd anticipates that the majority will be paid in 2004 and 2005. ComEd is considering whether there are additional positions to be eliminated in 2005 and 2006. ComEd may incur further severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way if additional positions are identified to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. 62 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities ComEds cash flow from operating activities primarily results from sales of electricity to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices. ComEds future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve operating cost reductions, and the impact of the economy, weather and customer choice on its revenues. Cash flows from operations have been and are expected to continue to provide a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements. Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in ComEds rate regulatory environment, although any effects are not expected to hinder ComEds ability to fund its business requirements. See Business Outlook and Challenges in Managing our Business. Cash flows provided by operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $948 million and $1,664 million, respectively. Changes in ComEds cash flows from operations are generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as further adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations, ComEds operating cash flows in 2003 were affected by the following items: Payments to Generation in 2003 for amounts owed under the PPA. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, ComEd had accrued payments due to Generation under the PPA of $171 million and $339 million, respectively. Discretionary contributions to Exelons defined benefit pension plans of $178 million in 2003 compared to $82 million in 2002. ComEd participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Act of 1974; however, Exelon expects to make a discretionary pension plan contribution up to approximately $419 million in 2004, of which, $216 million is expected to be funded by ComEd. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $893 million in 2003 compared to $783 million in 2002. The increase in cash flows used in investing activities was primarily attributable to a $405 million investment in the Exelon intercompany money pool partially offset by the receipt of $213 million from Unicom Investments Inc. related to an intercompany note payable and a $68 million decrease in capital expenditures. ComEds investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 were funded primarily through operating activities. ComEd estimates that it will spend approximately $616 million in total capital expenditures for 2004. Approximately one half of the budgeted 2004 expenditures are for continuing efforts to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amount is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. ComEd anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of debt or preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2003 were $37 million as compared to $888 million in 2002. The decrease in cash flows used in financing activities is primarily attributable to increased issuances of debt, including debt to affiliates and preferred securities, of $945 million, a $107 million increase in contributions from parent and a $69 million decrease in dividend payments to Exelon, partially offset by a $142 million change in 63 Table of Contents commercial paper activity, a $74 million increase in debt and preferred securities redemptions and increased interest rate swap settlement of $35 million. ComEd paid a $401 million dividend to Exelon during 2003 compared to a $470 million dividend in 2002. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility. ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. In October 2003, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation replaced their $1.5 billion bank unsecured revolving credit facility with a $750 million 364 day unsecured revolving credit agreement and a $750 million 3 year unsecured revolving credit agreement with a group of banks. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. The 364 day agreement also includes a term out option provision that allows a borrower to extend the maturity of revolving credit borrowings outstanding at the end of the 364 day period for one year. At December 31, 2003, ComEds aggregate sublimit under the credit agreements was $100 million. Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. ComEd had approximately $80 million of unused bank commitments under the credit agreements at December 31, 2003. ComEd did not have any commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2002, ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet reflected $123 million in commercial paper outstanding of which $52 million was classified as long term debt. Interest rates on the advances under the credit agreements are based on either the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) or prime plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum adder would be 175 basis points. For 2003, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.47%. Certain of the credit agreements to which ComEd is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. ComEds threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreements cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, ComEd was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2003, ComEds capital structure consisted of 34% long term debt, 16% long term debt to affiliates, and 50% common equity. At December 31, 2003, ComEds capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $250 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes but is excluded here to reflect amounts expected to be received by ComEd from Exelon to pay future taxes), consisted of 34% long term debt, 15% long term debt to affiliates, and 51% common equity. Long term debt to affiliates includes obligations to ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III and the ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, which are no longer consolidated within the financial statements due to the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 46 R Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN No. 46 R) as of December 31, 2003. Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that could be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary, Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc. (ComEd of Indiana), PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon Corporate may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. ComEds maximum amount of investment at any time during 2003 was $483 million. At December 31, 2003, ComEds contribution outstanding was $405 million. During 2003, ComEd earned $2 million in interest on its investments in the intercompany money pool. 64 Table of Contents Security Ratings. ComEds access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. In the fourth quarter of 2003, Standard & Poors Ratings Services affirmed ComEds corporate credit ratings but revised its outlook to negative from stable. None of ComEds borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows ComEds securities ratings at December 31, 2003: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings Senior secured debt A3 A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Transition bonds (1) Aaa AAA AAA (1) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Fund Transfer Restrictions. Under applicable federal law, ComEd can only pay dividends from retained or current earnings. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing II and ComEd Financing III (the Financing Trusts) that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities which were issued to the Financing Trusts; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of the Financing Trusts; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. At December 31, 2003, ComEd had retained earnings of $883 million, of which $709 million had been appropriated for future dividend payments. ComEd is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations ComEds contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years Long term debt $ 4,396 $ 236 $ 889 $ 644 $ 2,627 Long term debt to affiliates 2,037 317 680 680 360 Operating leases 116 14 24 23 55 Chicago agreement (1) 54 6 12 12 24 Regulatory commitments 30 10 20 Total contractual obligations $ 6,633 $ 583 $ 1,625 $ 1,359 $ 3,066 (1) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt, see Note 8 65 Table of Contents operating leases, see Note 15 Midwest Agreement, see Note 15 regulatory commitments, see Note 2 See Note 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of ComEds commercial commitments as of December 31, 2003. IRS Refund Claims ComEd entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and has made refundable prepayments of $11 million for potential fees associated with these agreements. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS, if any. As such, ultimate net cash flows to ComEd related to these agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claim with the IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to ComEds financial position, results of operations and cash flows. ComEds tax benefits for periods prior to the Merger would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill pursuant to a reallocation of the Merger purchase price. ComEd cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. Variable Interest Entities Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were deconsolidated from the financial statements of ComEd in conjunction with the adoption of FIN No. 46 R. Approximately $2 billion of debt issued by ComEd to these financing trusts was recorded as debt to affiliates within the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2003. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business ComEd conducts business in the electric transmission and distribution industry in the United States. That industry is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. ComEds energy delivery business remains highly regulated and is capital intensive. The challenges affecting ComEds businesses are discussed below. Further discussion of ComEds liquidity position and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. ComEds business is comprised of utility transmission and distribution operations, which provides electricity to customers in Illinois. Illinois has adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. As a result of these restructuring initiatives, ComEd is subject to rate freezes through a mandated restructuring transition period ending on December 31, 2006. During this period, ComEds results of operations will depend on its ability to deliver energy in a cost efficient manner and to offset infrastructure investments and inflation with cost savings initiatives. ComEd expects to continue to have long term, full requirements supply contracts with Generation, helping to mitigate the risk of changing energy supply costs during the transition period. 66 Table of Contents ComEd is also managing operations and maintenance costs by implementing The Exelon Way business model, while maintaining a focus on both reliability and safety in operating the business. ComEd cannot currently predict the framework that will be used by the Illinois state regulators to establish rates after the transition period. ComEd also cannot predict the outcome of any new laws that may impact its business. Nevertheless, ComEd expects to retain significant POLR obligations, whereby it is required to provide service to customers in its service area. ComEd therefore must continue to ensure adequate supplies of electricity are available at reasonable costs. While ComEd does not have its own generation capabilities, ComEd believes its ongoing relationship with Generation will serve to lessen the supply and price risks associated with its expected ongoing power procurement responsibilities. More detailed explanations for each of these and other challenges in managing the business are as follows: ComEd must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing its business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. ComEds business is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. ComEd is regulated by the ICC, which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between the utilities and its affiliates. ComEd is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates transmission rates and certain other aspects of its business. The regulations adopted by the state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which ComEd does business, its ability to undertake specified actions, the costs of operations, and the level of rates charged to recover such costs. ComEd must manage its costs due to the rate and equity return limitations imposed on its revenues. Rate freezes and caps in effect at ComEd currently limit the ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. As a result, ComEds future results of operations will depend on the ability to deliver electricity in a cost efficient manner and to realize cost savings under The Exelon Way to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. Rate limitations. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated rate freeze on bundled retail rates that will remain in effect until January 1, 2007. Equity return limitation. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated cap on its return on common equity through the end of 2006. The cap is based on a two year average of the U.S. Treasury long term rates (25 years and above) plus 8.5% and is compared to a two year average return on ComEds common equity. The legislation requires customer refunds equal to one half of any excess earnings above the cap. ComEd is allowed to include regulatory asset amortization in the calculation of earnings. ComEd has not triggered the earnings provision and currently does not expect to trigger the earnings sharing provision in the years 2004 through 2006. ComEds long term purchased power agreements provide a partial hedge to its customers demand. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, ComEd has established full requirements, power supply agreements with Generation which reduce exposure to the volatility of customer demand and market prices through 2006. These agreements fix the price of energy, and under the PPA, prices for energy vary depending upon the time of day and month of delivery. Market prices relative to ComEds regulated rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. Effective management of capital projects is important to ComEds business. ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities and in other internal infrastructure projects. 67 Table of Contents ComEd expects to continue to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. ComEd further expects those capital expenditures will exceed depreciation on its plant assets. ComEds base rate freeze and caps will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any of these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2007. ComEds business may be significantly affected by the end of the Illinois regulatory transition period. Illinois electric utilities are allowed to collect CTCs from customers who choose an alternative supplier of electric generation service or choose ComEds PPO. CTCs were intended to assist electric utilities, such as ComEd, in recovering stranded costs that might not otherwise be recoverable in a fully competitive market. The CTC charge represents the difference between the market value of delivered energy (the sum of generation service at market based prices and the regulated price of energy delivery) and recoveries under historical bundled rates, reduced by a mitigation factor. The CTC charges are updated annually. Over time, to facilitate the transition to a competitive market, the mitigation factor increases, thereby reducing the CTC charge. In 2003 and 2002, ComEd collected approximately $300 million of CTC revenue annually. As a result of increasing mitigation factors, changes in energy prices and the ability of certain customers to establish fixed, multi year CTC rates beginning in 2003, ComEd anticipates that this revenue source will decline to approximately $180 million to $200 million in each of the years 2004 through 2006. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Through 2006, ComEd will continue to have an obligation to offer bundled service to all customers (except certain large customers with demand of three megawatts or more) at frozen price levels, under which a majority of its residential and small commercial customers are expected to continue to receive service. ComEds current bundled service is generally provided under an all inclusive rate that does not separately break out charges for energy generation service and energy delivery service, but charges a single set of prices. After the transition ends in 2006, ComEds bundled rates may be reset through a regulatory approval process, which may include traditional or innovative pricing, including performance based incentives to ComEd. In order to address post transition uncertainty, ComEd is continually working with Illinois state and business community leadership to facilitate the development of a competitive electricity market while providing system reliability. Transparent and liquid markets will help to minimize litigation over electricity prices and provide consumers assurance of equitable pricing. At the same time, ComEd is attempting to establish a regulatory framework for the post 2006 timeframe and ComEd is pursuing measures that will provide greater productivity, quality and innovation in its work practices. Currently, it is difficult to predict the framework for or the outcome of a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates after 2006. ComEds ability to successfully manage the end of the transition period may affect its capital structure. ComEd has approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2003. This goodwill was recognized and recorded in connection with the Merger. Under GAAP, the goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis of ComEds cash flows. If an impairment is determined at ComEd, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed by ComEd. Under Illinois statute, any impairment of goodwill has no impact on the determination of ComEds rate cap through the transition period. Goodwill has not been impaired to date. However, based on certain anticipated reductions to cash flows (primarily CTCs) subsequent to ComEds regulatory transition period, ComEd believes there is a reasonable possibility that goodwill will be impaired at ComEd in 2004 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of goodwill impairments in future years, if any, will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables including, among others, changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, 68 Table of Contents market power prices, post 2006 rate regulatory structures, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. ComEd is and will continue to be involved in regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of ComEds costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, ComEd looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grants some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. ComEd must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Increases in both customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of ComEds maintenance and capital expenditures. ComEd cannot predict what impact these failures, or failures that impact other utilities such as the blackout in the Northeastern United States and Canada on August 14, 2003 (August Blackout), will have on its anticipated capital expenditures. Although ComEd was not directly affected by the August Blackout, ComEd may be indirectly affected going forward. Regulated utilities that are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Following the August Blackout, significant claims have been asserted against various other utilities on behalf of both customers and non customers for damages resulting from the blackout. ComEd cannot predict whether these claims will be upheld or whether they or legislative or regulatory initiatives in response to the August Blackout will change the traditional liability protections of utilities in providing regulated service. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. ComEd has lost and may continue to lose energy customers to other generation suppliers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of ComEd will vary because of customer choice of generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Illinois, all of ComEds retail electric customers may choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative electric generation suppliers. ComEd is generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in their service territories at fixed rates, or in some instances, market derived rates. In addition, customers who take service from an alternative generation supplier may later return to ComEd, provided, however, that under Illinois law ComEds obligation to provide generation may be eliminated over time if the ICC finds that competitive supply options are available to certain classes of customers. ComEd remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation suppliers. The number of customers taking service from alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that ComEd is authorized to charge by the Illinois regulatory commission. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation supplier, ComEds revenues are likely to decline, and ComEd anticipates its revenues and gross margins could vary from period to period. 69 Table of Contents ComEd continues to serve as the POLR for energy for all customers in its service territories. Since ComEd customers can switch, that is, within limits they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to ComEd and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on, planning for ComEd has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. ComEd has no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. ComEd manages its POLR obligation through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation supplies ComEds power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd load for which Generation must prepare. This uncertainty increases Generations costs and may limit Generations sales opportunities. ComEd has received ICC approval to phase out its obligation to provide fixed price energy under bundled rates to approximately 350 of its largest energy customers, which ComEd believes partially mitigates its risk. These are commercial and industrial customers, including heavy industrial plants, large office buildings, government facilities and a variety of other businesses with demands of at least three MWs representing an aggregate of approximately 2,500 MWs of load. These customers accounted for 10% of ComEds 2003 MWh deliveries. Weather affects electricity usage and, consequently, ComEds results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter of its fiscal year. However, extreme summer conditions or storms may stress its transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting its ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on its operations. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds service territories directly affect the demand for electricity. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their average use of energy. Periods of recessionary economic conditions generally adversely affect ComEds results of operations. In the near term, retail sales growth on an annual basis is expected to be 1.2% in the service territory. Long term retail sales growth for electricity is expected to be 1.5% per year for ComEd. ComEds business is affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. The electric utility industry in the United States is in transition. As a result of both legislative initiatives as well as competitive pressures, the industry has been moving from a fully regulated industry, consisting primarily of vertically integrated companies that combine generation, transmission and distribution, to a partially restructured industry, consisting of competitive wholesale generation markets and continued regulation of transmission and distribution. These developments have been somewhat uneven across the states as a result of the reaction to the problems experienced in California in 2000, the August Blackout and the publicized problems of some energy companies. Illinois has adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. A large number of states have not changed their regulatory structures. Regional Transmission Organizations / Standard Market Platform. The FERC has required jurisdictional utilities to provide open access to their transmission systems. It has also sought the voluntary development of regional transmission organizations (RTOs) and the elimination of trade barriers between regions. The FERC also proposed rulemakings to implement protocols to create a standard wholesale market platform for the wholesale markets for energy and capacity. The RTO would become the provider of the transmission service, and the transmission owners would recover their revenue requirements through it. The transmission owners would remain responsible for maintaining and physically operating their transmission facilities. The wholesale market 70 Table of Contents platform proposal would also require RTOs to operate an organized bid based wholesale market for those who wish to sell their generation through the market and to manage congestion on transmission lines preferably by means of a financially based system known as locational marginal pricing. The FERC is likely to finalize its wholesale market platform rule during 2004. ComEd and other Midwestern utilities are seeking to become fully integrated into the PJM RTO in 2004. When ComEd integrates into PJM, ComEd will recover its current transmission revenues through the PJM open access transmission tariff (OATT), instead of ComEds own OATT. The FERCs RTO and standard market platform initiatives have generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. Efforts to develop an RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. ComEd supports both of these FERC initiatives but cannot predict whether they will be successful, what impact they may ultimately have on its transmission rates, revenues and operation of its transmission facilities, or whether they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. To the extent that ComEd has POLR obligations and may at some point no longer have long term supply contracts with Generation or other suppliers for their loads, the ability of ComEd to cost effectively serve its POLR load obligations may depend on successful spot markets in its franchised service territories. Proposed Federal Energy Legislation. One of the principal legislative initiatives of the Bush administration is the adoption of comprehensive federal energy legislation. In 2003, an energy bill was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives but was not voted on by the U.S. Senate. The energy bill, as currently written, would repeal the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA), create incentives for the construction of transmission infrastructure, encourage but not mandate standardized competitive markets and expand the authority of the FERC to include overseeing the reliability of the bulk power system. ComEd cannot predict whether comprehensive energy legislation will be adopted and, if adopted, the final form of that legislation. ComEd would expect that comprehensive energy legislation would, if adopted, significantly affect the electric utility industry and ComEds businesses. Capital Markets and Financing Environment In order to expand ComEds operations and to meet the needs of current and future customers, ComEd invests in its business. The ability to finance ComEds business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of ComEds operations and ComEds current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of ComEds liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. The ability to grow ComEds business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. ComEds business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, ComEd secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. ComEd actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Management currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in ComEd and Exelon, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. 71 Table of Contents ComEds credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. ComEd has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would cause ComEd to incur higher financing costs. Market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy the future obligations under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans, in which ComEd participates. ComEd has significant obligations in these areas and Exelon holds significant assets in these trusts to meet these obligations. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase Exelons funding requirements for these obligations. ComEd may be required to fund a portion of these increased funding requirements. ComEds results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects ComEd through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the rate freezes that ComEd operates under and price pressures due to competition, ComEd may not be able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other ComEds financial performance will be affected by its ability to achieve the targeted cash savings under Exelons new Exelon Way business model. ComEd has begun to implement Exelons new Exelon Way business model, which is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. Exelon has incurred expenses, including employee severance costs, associated with reaching these annual cash savings levels and is considering whether there are additional expenses to be recorded in future periods. Exelons targeted annual cash savings do not reflect any expenses that may be incurred in future periods. Exelons inability to realize these annual cash savings levels in the targeted timeframes could adversely affect future financial performance. ComEd may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. ComEds business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which ComEd conducts its operations and make its capital expenditures. ComEd is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by ComEd and of property contaminated by hazardous substances ComEd generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, ComEd has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, ComEd is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2003, ComEds reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $69 million. ComEd has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but ComEd cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover ComEds environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether ComEd will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by ComEd, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. 72 Table of Contents ComEds financial performance is affected by increasing costs associated with additional security measures and obtaining adequate liability insurance. Security. The electric industry has developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, the FERC issued minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system control. These standards are expected to be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and ComEd is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. ComEd, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. Exelon is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition in ComEds market. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generating facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on ComEds results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 73 Table of Contents PECO Executive Summary 2003 has been a year of operating accomplishments. PECO has focused on living up to its reliability and safety commitments while pursuing greater productivity, quality and innovation. Here are just a few of the 2003 highlights: Financial Results. PECO experienced an overall decline in net income of 2% in 2003. This decline was primarily due to higher fuel and operating and maintenance expenses, including costs associated with implementing The Exelon Way, and depreciation and amortization expense. PECOs 2003 results were favorably affected by higher gas revenue, lower taxes other than income and lower interest expenses. The Exelon Way. PECO implemented The Exelon Way, an aggressive, long term operational plan defining how PECO will conduct business in years to come. The Exelon Way is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. PECO recorded severance and severance related after tax charges during 2003 associated with the implementation of The Exelon Way and is considering whether it will incur additional severance related costs in future periods. Investment Strategy. PECO continued to invest in its infrastructure, spending over $250 million in 2003, and expects to invest $239 million in 2004. Financing Activities. PECO refinanced or repaid $579 million of outstanding debt and equity securities in 2003 and repaid approximately $239 million of transition bonds and $154 million of commercial paper, resulting in annual interest savings of $38 million. PECO met all of its capital resource commitments with internally generated cash and expects to do so in the foreseeable future. Operational Achievements. PECOs business focused on the core fundamentals of providing reliable delivery service. PECO, and Exelons other operating affiliates combined resources to minimize the aftermath of Hurricane Isabel that affected the Philadelphia area and helped to prevent the potentially detrimental cascading effects of the August 14, 2003 blackout in the Northeastern United States and Canada (August Blackout) to its system and to its customers. Following several years of continued reliability improvement, PECOs performance dipped slightly in 2003 due to Hurricane Isabel. Outlook for 2004 and Beyond. In the short term, PECOs financial results will be affected by weather conditions and the successful implementation of The Exelon Way. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, operating revenues at PECO generally will be favorably affected. Longer term, restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, with continuing debate at the FERC on regional transmission organization (RTO) and standard market platform issues and in many states on the post transition format. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (like California), some states are adjusting current transition plans (like New Jersey and Ohio), and the state of Pennsylvania (by 2011) is considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. PECO will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations and controlling costs. As PECO nears the end of the restructuring transition period for which its transmission and distribution rates are capped in Pennsylvania (2006), PECO will also continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local government, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. As in the past, by working together with all interested 74 Table of Contents parties, PECO can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers. However, if PECO is unsuccessful, its results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected. While the U.S. economic recovery appears underway, PECOs current plan is based on moderate sales growth (1% to 2%). Successful implementation of The Exelon Way is needed to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. PECOs stable base of 1.5 million electric and 460, 000 gas customers will provide a solid platform with which to meet these challenges. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2002 Significant Operating Trends PECO 2003 2002 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 4,388 $ 4,333 $ 55 1.3 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 1,677 1,669 8 0.5 % Fuel 419 348 71 20.4 % Operating and maintenance 576 523 53 10.1 % Depreciation and amortization 487 456 31 6.8 % Taxes other than income 173 244 (71 ) (29.1 )% Total operating expense 3,332 3,240 92 2.8 % OPERATING INCOME 1,056 1,093 (37 ) (3.4 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (324 ) (370 ) 46 (12.4 )% Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (8 ) (10 ) 2 (20.0 )% Other, net 2 32 (30 ) (93.8 )% Total other income and deductions (330 ) (348 ) 18 (5.2 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 726 745 (19 ) (2.6 )% INCOME TAXES 253 259 (6 ) (2.3 )% NET INCOME 473 486 (13 ) (2.7 )% Preferred stock dividends 5 8 (3 ) (37.5 )% NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 468 $ 478 $ (10 ) (2.1 )% Net Income The decrease in net income in 2003 was a result of higher fuel, operating and maintenance and depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by higher gas revenue, lower taxes other than income and lower interest expense. 75 Table of Contents Operating Revenue PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in gigawatthours (GWhs)) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Bundled deliveries (1) Residential 11,358 10,365 993 9.6 % Small commercial & industrial 6,624 7,606 (982 ) (12.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 14,739 14,766 (27 ) (0.2 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 897 852 45 5.3 % 33,618 33,589 29 0.1 % Unbundled deliveries (2) Residential 900 1,971 (1,071 ) (54.3 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,455 415 1,040 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 780 557 223 40.0 % 3,135 2,943 192 6.5 % Total retail deliveries 36,753 36,532 221 0.6 % (1) Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2) Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. n.m. not meaningful Electric Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Bundled revenue (1) Residential $ 1,444 $ 1,338 $ 106 7.9 % Small commercial & industrial 753 865 (112 ) (12.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,090 1,086 4 0.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 80 79 1 1.3 % 3,367 3,368 (1 ) n.m. Unbundled revenue (2) Residential 65 145 (80 ) (55.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 75 21 54 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 21 16 5 31.3 % 161 182 (21 ) (11.5 )% Total electric retail revenues 3,528 3,550 (22 ) (0.6 )% Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (3) 215 234 (19 ) (8.1 )% Total electric revenue $ 3,743 $ 3,784 $ (41 ) (1.1 )% (1) Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2) Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. (3) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. 76 Table of Contents The changes in electric retail revenues in 2003, as compared to 2002, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate mix $ (25 ) Customer choice (12 ) Volume 13 Weather 3 Other effects (1 ) Electric retail revenue $ (22 ) Rate Mix. The decrease in revenues from rate mix is due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2003 compared to 2002. Customer Choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from alternative electric generation suppliers. This choice generally does not impact kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the energy provided by alternative electric generation suppliers was 3,135 GWhs or 8.5% as compared to 2,943 GWhs or 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2003, the number of customers served by alternative electric generation suppliers was 312,600 or 20.4% as compared to 277,800 or 18.2% as of December 31, 2002. The decrease in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice primarily relates to small commercial and industrial customers selecting or being assigned to alternative electric generation suppliers. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased PECOs revenue $13 million compared to 2002, primarily related to increases in the residential customer class, reflecting customer growth, and increased usage in the small commercial and industrial customer classes. Weather. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. The weather impact was slightly favorable compared to the prior year reflecting colder winter weather during the beginning of the year, largely offset by cooler summer weather and warmer winter weather during the end of the year. Heating degree days increased 16% in 2003 compared to 2002. Cooling degree days decreased 21% compared to 2002. PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales 61,858 54,782 7,076 12.9 % Transportation 26,404 30,763 (4,359 ) (14.2 )% Total 88,262 85,545 2,717 3.2 % Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 609 $ 490 $ 119 24.3 % Transportation 18 19 (1 ) (5.3 )% Resales and other 18 40 (22 ) (55.0 )% Total $ 645 $ 549 $ 96 17.5 % 77 Table of Contents The changes in gas retail revenue for 2003, as compared to 2002, were attributable to the following: Variance Weather $ 71 Rate changes 51 Volume (3 ) Gas retail revenue $ 119 Weather. The weather impact was favorable in 2003 compared to 2002 reflecting colder winter weather during the beginning of the year, partly offset by warmer weather during the end of the year. Heating degree days in PECOs service territory increased 16% in 2003 compared to 2002. Rate Changes. The favorable variance in rates was attributable to increases in rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003 and December 1, 2003. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf for 2003 was 11% higher than the rate in 2002. PECOs purchased gas cost rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC and are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in rates. Lower gas resale and other revenues are attributable to a decrease in off system sales, exchanges and capacity releases during 2003 compared to 2002. Purchased Power The increase in purchased power expense was attributable to $10 million for higher electric delivery volume and $7 million for higher prices, including higher PJM ancillary charges, partially offset by decreased purchases of $9 million primarily related to additional small commercial and industrial customers selecting or being assigned to alternative electric generation suppliers in 2003. Fuel The increase in fuel expense in 2003 was primarily attributable to a $55 million increase in purchased gas volumes to meet increased customer demand and a $39 million increase due to higher gas costs, partially offset by a $28 million decrease in fuel expense associated with lower resale sales. Operating and Maintenance The increase in O&M expense was primarily attributable to $30 million of severance and severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way, $22 million of higher storm related costs, $16 million of increased employee fringe benefits, $7 million related to additional uncollectible accounts expense, partially offset by $13 million of lower costs associated with the initial implementation of automated meter reading services in 2002, and $15 million of lower payroll expense due to a lower number of employees. During 2002, PECO decreased its reserve for uncollectible accounts by $17 million as a result of a change in estimate. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense in 2003 increased as compared to 2002 as follows: 2003 2002 Variance % Change Competitive transition charge amortization $ 336 $ 308 $ 28 9.1 % Depreciation expense 130 125 5 4.0 % Other amortization expense 21 23 (2 ) (8.7 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 487 $ 456 $ 31 6.8 % 78 Table of Contents The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. The increase in depreciation expense was due to additional plant in service. Taxes Other Than Income The decrease in taxes other than income in 2003 was primarily attributable to a $58 million reversal of real estate tax accruals in 2003, a $16 million decrease in real estate tax expense in 2003, a $12 million reversal of the use tax accrual due to an audit settlement, partially offset by a $14 million reversal of an overaccrual of Pennsylvania sales and use tax in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consisted of interest expense, interest expense to unconsolidated affiliates and distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership (COMPrS). The decrease in 2003 was primarily attributable to lower interest expense on long term debt of $38 million as a result of less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates, and the reversal of accrued interest expense on federal income taxes of $8 million in 2003. Other Income and Deductions The decrease in other income and deductions was primarily attributable to a reversal of interest expense on federal income taxes of $14 million and an $18 million IRS refund, both of which occurred during 2002. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends PECO 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 4,333 $ 3,965 $ 368 9.3 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 1,669 1,352 317 23.4 % Fuel 348 450 (102 ) (22.7 )% Operating and maintenance 523 587 (64 ) (10.9 )% Depreciation and amortization 456 416 40 9.6 % Taxes other than income 244 161 83 51.6 % Total operating expense 3,240 2,966 274 9.2 % OPERATING INCOME 1,093 999 94 9.4 % OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (370 ) (413 ) 43 (10.4 )% Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (10 ) (10 ) Other, net 32 46 (14 ) (30.4 )% Total other income and deductions (348 ) (377 ) 29 (7.7 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 745 622 123 19.8 % INCOME TAXES 259 197 62 31.5 % NET INCOME 486 425 61 14.4 % Preferred stock dividends 8 10 (2 ) (20.0 )% NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 478 $ 415 $ 63 15.2 % 79 Table of Contents Net Income The increase in net income in 2002 was a result of higher sales volume, favorable rate adjustments, lower operating and maintenance expense and lower interest expense on debt partially offset by increased taxes other than income and increased depreciation and amortization expense. Operating Revenue PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled deliveries (1) Residential 10,365 8,073 2,292 28.4 % Small commercial & industrial 7,606 5,998 1,608 26.8 % Large commercial & industrial 14,766 12,960 1,806 13.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 852 765 87 11.4 % 33,589 27,796 5,793 20.8 % Unbundled deliveries (2) Residential 1,971 3,105 (1,134 ) (36.5 )% Small commercial & industrial 415 1,606 (1,191 ) (74.2 )% Large commercial & industrial 557 2,352 (1,795 ) (76.3 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 7 (7 ) (100.0 )% 2,943 7,070 (4,127 ) (58.4 )% Total retail deliveries 36,532 34,866 1,666 4.8 % (1) Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2) Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled revenue (1) Residential $ 1,338 $ 1,028 $ 310 30.2 % Small commercial & industrial 865 682 183 26.8 % Large commercial & industrial 1,086 929 157 16.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 79 72 7 9.7 % 3,368 2,711 657 24.2 % Unbundled revenue (2) Residential 145 235 (90 ) (38.3 )% Small commercial & industrial 21 81 (60 ) (74.1 )% Large commercial & industrial 16 64 (48 ) (75.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 1 (1 ) (100.0 )% 182 381 (199 ) (52.2 )% Total Electric Retail Revenues 3,550 3,092 458 14.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (3) 234 219 15 6.8 % Total electric revenue $ 3,784 $ 3,311 $ 473 14.3 % (1) Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2) Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. (3) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. 80 Table of Contents The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer choice $ 226 Volume 133 Weather 63 Rate changes 45 Other effects (9 ) Electric retail revenue $ 458 Customer Choice. As of December 31, 2002, the customer load served by alternative electric generation suppliers was 1,002 MW or 12.8% as compared to 1,003 MW or 13.0% as of December 31, 2001. The percent of PECOs total retail deliveries for which PECO was electric supplier was 92.0% in 2002, compared to 79.8% in 2001. As of December 31, 2002, the number of customers served by alternative electric generation suppliers was 277,805 or 18.2% as compared to December 31, 2001 of 371,500 or 24.4%. The increases in customers and the percentage of load served by PECO primarily resulted from customers selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased PECOs revenue $133 million compared to 2001, primarily related to increased usage in the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Weather. The weather impact was favorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer summer weather. Cooling degree days increased 15% in 2002 compared to 2001. Heating degree days increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Rate Changes. The increase in revenues attributable to rate changes primarily reflects the expiration of a 6% reduction in PECOs electric rates during the first quarter of 2001 and a $50 million increase as a result of the increase in the gross receipts tax rate effective January 1, 2002. These increases are partially offset by the timing of a $60 million rate reduction in effect for 2001 and 2002. As permitted by the Pennsylvania Competition Act, the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue calculated a 2002 Revenue Neutral Reconciliation (RNR) adjustment to gross receipts tax rate in order to neutralize the impact of electric restructuring on its tax revenues. In January 2002, the PUC approved the RNR adjustment to the gross receipts tax rate collected from customers. Effective January 1, 2002, PECO implemented the change in the gross receipts tax rate. The RNR adjustment increases the gross receipts tax rate, which increased both PECOs annual revenues and tax obligations by approximately $50 million in 2002. In December 2002, the PUC approved the inclusion of the RNR factor in PECOs base rates eliminating the need for an annual filing to obtain approval for recovery. Other Effects. Other items affecting revenue include an $11 million settlement of CTCs by a large customer in the first quarter of 2001. 81 Table of Contents PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Deliveries to customers in mmcf 2002 2001 Variance % Change Retail sales 54,782 54,075 707 1.3 % Transportation 30,763 27,453 3,310 12.1 % Total 85,545 81,528 4,017 4.9 % Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 490 $ 581 $ (91 ) (15.7 )% Transportation 19 18 1 5.6 % Resales and other 40 55 (15 ) (27.3 )% Total $ 549 $ 654 $ (105 ) (16.1 )% The changes in gas retail revenue for 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate changes $ (108 ) Weather 2 Volume 15 Gas retail revenue $ (91 ) Rate Changes. The unfavorable variance in rates was primarily attributable to a decrease in rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective in December 2001. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf for 2002 was 22% lower than the rate in 2001. Weather. The weather impact was favorable, as a result of colder weather in 2002, as compared to 2001. Heating degree days in PECOs service territory increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased revenue by $15 million in 2002 compared to 2001. Total deliveries to customers increased 5% in 2002 compared to 2001, primarily as a result of customer growth and higher transportation volumes. Lower gas resale and other revenues are attributable to a decrease in off system sales, exchanges and capacity releases during 2002 compared to 2001. Purchased Power The increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to $210 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier, higher PJM ancillary charges of $41 million, $38 million from higher delivery volume primarily related to electric sales and $28 million as a result of favorable weather conditions. Fuel The decrease in fuel expense was primarily attributable to a $108 million decrease from lower gas prices. Operating and Maintenance The decrease in O&M expense in 2002 was primarily attributable to a $23 million reduction in the allowance for the uncollectible accounts during 2002, and $6 million related to lower corporate allocations. The 82 Table of Contents decrease is also attributable to $18 million of employee severance costs associated with the Merger, $12 million of incremental costs related to two storms, $7 million attributable to customer choice and $5 million associated with a write off of excess and obsolete inventory, all of which occurred in 2001. These decreases are partially offset by $12 million related to additional costs associated with the deployment of automated meter reading technology during 2002. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense in 2002 increased as compared to 2001 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Competitive transition charge amortization $ 308 $ 271 $ 37 13.7 % Depreciation expense 125 119 6 5.0 % Other amortization expense 23 26 (3 ) (11.5 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 456 $ 416 $ 40 9.6 % The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. The increase in depreciation expense was due to additional plant in service. Taxes Other Than Income The increase in taxes other than income in 2002 was primarily attributable to $72 million of additional gross receipts tax related to additional revenues and an increase in the gross receipts tax rate on electric revenue effective January 1, 2002. The increase was also attributable to $15 million related to an additional assessment of real estate taxes in 2002. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $4 million for state sales and use tax in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consisted of interest expense and distributions on COMPrS. The decrease in 2002 was primarily attributable to lower interest expense on long term debt of $35 million as a result of less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates, and $8 million in interest expense on a loan from ComEd in 2001. Other Income and Deductions The decrease in other income and deductions in 2002 was primarily attributable to intercompany interest income of $10 million, a gain on the settlement of an interest rate swap of $6 million and the favorable settlement of a customer contract of $3 million, all of which occurred in 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 34.8% in 2002 as compared to 31.7% in 2001. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to an unfavorable tax adjustments recorded in 2002. 83 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to external financing sources at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. As part of the implementation of The Exelon Way, PECO identified approximately 166 positions for elimination by the end of 2004 and recorded a charge for salary continuance severance of $16 million before income taxes during 2003, which PECO anticipates that the majority will be paid in 2004 and 2005. PECO is considering whether there are additional positions to be eliminated in 2005 and 2006. PECO may incur further severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way if additional positions are identified to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Cash Flows from Operating Activities PECOs cash flow from operating activities primarily results from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices. PECOs future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve operating cost reductions, and the impact of the economy, weather and customer choice on its revenues. Cash flows from operations have been and are expected to continue to provide a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements for the foreseeable future. See Business Outlook and Challenges in Managing our Business. Cash flows provided by operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $814 million and $760 million, respectively. Changes in PECOs cash flows from operations are generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as further adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operation, PECOs operating cash flows in 2003 were affected by the following items: Purchases of natural gas at higher prices as well as slightly increased volumes during 2003 resulted in an increase in natural gas inventories of $32 million from December 31, 2002 and an increase in deferred natural gas costs of $50 million, resulting in a decrease to operating cash flows of $82 million during 2003. During 2002, changes in deferred natural gas costs of $25 million and a decrease in inventories during the year of $5 million, resulted in a $30 million increase to operating cash flows. Discretionary contributions to Exelons defined benefit pension plans of $18 million in 2003. PECO did not contribute to the pension plans in 2002. PECO participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon expects to make a discretionary pension plan contribution up to approximately $419 million in 2004, of which, $8 million is expected to be funded by PECO. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities in 2003 were $246 million compared to $260 million in 2002. The decrease in cash flows used in investing activities was primarily attributable to a decrease in capital expenditures. PECOs investing activities during 2003 were funded primarily by operating activities. 84 Table of Contents PECOs projected capital expenditures for 2004 are $239 million. Approximately 60% of the budgeted 2004 expenditures are for additions to or upgrades of existing facilities, including reliability improvements. The remainder of the capital expenditures support customer and load growth. PECO anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2003 were $587 million compared to $469 million in 2002. Cash flows used in financing activities are primarily attributable to debt service and payment of dividends to Exelon. The increase in cash flows used in financing activities was primarily attributable to increased debt and preferred securities redemptions of $481 million, partially offset by additional issuances of long term debt of $328 million. PECO paid a $322 million dividend to Exelon during 2003 compared to a $340 million dividend in 2002. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility. PECO meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. In October 2003, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation replaced their $1.5 billion bank unsecured revolving credit facility with a $750 million 364 day unsecured revolving credit agreement and a $750 million 3 year unsecured revolving credit agreement with a group of banks. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. The 364 day agreement also includes a term out option provision that allows a borrower to extend the maturity of revolving credit borrowings outstanding at the end of the 364 day period for one year. At December 31, 2003, PECOs aggregate sublimit under the credit agreements was $150 million. Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. PECO had approximately $148 million of unused bank commitments under the credit agreements at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, commercial paper outstanding was $46 million. Interest rates on the advances under the credit facility are based on either the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) or prime plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum adder would be 175 basis points. For 2003, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.23%. Certain of the credit agreements to which PECO is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. PECOs threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, PECO was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2003, PECOs capital structure consisted of 14% common equity, 1% notes payable, 1% preferred securities, and 84% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. Long term debt included $4.0 billion of long term debt to an unconsolidated affiliate, PECO Energy Transition Trust, which issued transition bonds representing 62% of capitalization. PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.6 billion receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes but is excluded here to reflect amounts expected to be received by PECO from Exelon to pay future taxes), consisted of 31% common equity, 1% notes payable, 1% preferred securities, and 67% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that could be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany 85 Table of Contents money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary, Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon Corporate may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. PECO had no borrowings from the money pool during 2003. During 2003, PECO had various investments in the money pool. The maximum amount of PECOs investment at any time during 2003 was $59 million. At December 31, 2003, PECO had no amounts invested in the intercompany money pool. During 2003, PECO earned less than $1 million in interest from its investments in the intercompany money pool. Security Ratings. PECOs access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. In the fourth quarter of 2003, Standard & Poors Ratings Services affirmed PECOs corporate credit ratings but revised its outlook to negative from stable. None of PECOs borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows PECOs securities ratings at December 31, 2003: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings Senior secured debt A2 A A Transition bonds (1) Aaa AAA AAA Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 (1) Issued by PECO Energy Transition Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Fund Transfer Restrictions. Under applicable law, PECO is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon and can pay dividends only from retained or current earnings. At December 31, 2003, PECO had retained earnings of $546 million. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations PECOs contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years (in millions) Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years Long term debt $ 1,361 $ $ 124 $ 452 $ 785 Long term debt to affiliates 4,033 153 949 1,270 1,661 Notes payable 46 46 Operating leases 14 4 6 2 2 Total contractual obligations $ 5,454 $ 203 $ 1,079 $ 1,724 $ 2,448 See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt, including long term debt due to affiliates, see Note 7 notes payable, see Note 6 operating leases, see Note 14 86 Table of Contents See Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of PECOs commercial commitments as of December 31, 2003. Accounts Receivable Agreement. PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2005. PECO entered into this agreement to diversify its funding sources at favorable floating interest rates. At December 31, 2003, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $176 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, and a $49 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which was accounted for as a long term note payable. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO must continue to service these receivables and must maintain the level of the accounts receivable at $225 million. If PECO fails to maintain that level, the cash that would otherwise be received by PECO under this program must be held in escrow until the level is met. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposits. IRS Refund Claims PECO entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and have made refundable prepayments of $5 million for potential fees associated with these agreements. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS, if any. As such, ultimate net cash flows to PECO related to these agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claim with the IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to PECOs financial position, results of operations and cash flows. PECO cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV) in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities (see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN No. 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business PECOs business is comprised of utility transmission and distribution operations, which provides electricity and natural gas to customers in Pennsylvania. The electric industry in the United States is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. PECOs energy delivery business remains highly regulated and is capital intensive. The challenges affecting PECOs businesses are discussed below. Further discussion of PECOs liquidity position and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. Pennsylvania has restructuring legislation, the Pennsylvania Electric Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act), designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. As a result, PECO is subject to rate caps for each of the transmission, distribution and energy components of its electric 87 Table of Contents service rates, through mandated restructuring transition periods as described below. During these periods, PECOs results of operations will depend on its ability to deliver energy in a cost efficient manner and to offset infrastructure investments and inflation with cost savings initiatives. PECO has long term, full requirements supply contracts with Generation, helping to mitigate the risk of changing energy supply costs through December 31, 2010. PECO is also managing operations and maintenance costs by implementing The Exelon Way business model, while maintaining a focus on both reliability and safety in operating the business. PECO cannot currently predict the framework that will be used by the Pennsylvania state regulators to establish rates after the transition periods. PECO also cannot predict the outcome of any new laws that may impact its business. PECO may retain significant POLR obligations which require PECO to provide service to customers in its service area. PECO therefore must continue to ensure adequate supplies of electricity and gas are available at reasonable costs. While PECO does not have its own generation capabilities, PECO believes its ongoing relationship with Generation will serve to lessen the supply and price risks associated with its expected ongoing power procurement responsibilities. More detailed explanations for each of these and other challenges in managing the business are as follows: PECO must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing the business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. PECOs business is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. PECO is regulated by the PUC, which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between the utilities and its affiliates. PECO is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates transmission rates, gas pipelines and certain other aspects of the business. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which PECO does business, its ability to undertake specified actions and the costs of operations and the level of rates that may be charged to recover such costs. PECO must manage its costs due to the rate limitations imposed on its revenues. Electricity rate caps in effect at PECO currently limit the ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. As a result, PECOs future results of operations will depend on the ability to deliver electricity, in a cost efficient manner and to realize cost savings under The Exelon Way to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. Rate limitations. PECO is subject to agreed upon rate reductions of $200 million, in aggregate, for the period 2002 through 2005, including $80 million, in aggregate, for the years 2004 and 2005, and caps (subject to limited exceptions for significant increases in Federal or state income taxes or other significant changes in law or regulation that do not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return) on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006, and on its energy rates through December 31, 2010, as a result of settlements previously reached with the PUC. PECOs long term purchased power agreement provides a hedge to its customers demand. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, PECO has established a full requirements, power supply agreement with Generation which reduces PECOs exposure to the volatility of customer demand and market prices through 2010. Under this agreement, PECO remits to Generation the amounts collected from customers for the energy component of rates, net of gross receipts taxes and ancillary charges. Market prices relative to PECOs regulated rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. Effective management of capital projects is important to PECOs business. PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities and in other internal infrastructure projects. 88 Table of Contents PECO expects to continue to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. PECO further expects those capital expenditures will exceed depreciation on its plant assets. PECOs transmission and distribution rate cap will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any of these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2007. PECOs business may be significantly affected by the end of the Pennsylvania regulatory transition period. In Pennsylvania, the Competition Act provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customers bills as a mechanism for utilities to recover their allowed stranded costs. CTCs are assessed to and collected from all retail customers who have been assigned stranded cost responsibility and access the utilities transmission and distribution systems. As the CTCs are based on access to the utilitys transmission and distribution system, they will be assessed regardless of whether such customer purchases electricity from the utility or an alternative electric generation supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that the utilitys right to collect CTCs is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs were awarded, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. PECO has been authorized by the PUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. At December 31, 2003, approximately $4.3 billion remain to be recovered. Recovery of transition charges for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. Amortization of PECOs stranded cost recovery, which is a regulatory asset, is included in depreciation and amortization expense. PECOs results will be adversely affected over the remaining period ending December 31, 2010 by the steadily increasing amortization of stranded costs. The following table (amounts in millions) indicates the estimated revenues and amortization expense associated with CTC collection and stranded cost recovery through 2010. Year Estimated CTC Revenue Estimated Stranded Cost Amortization 2004 $ 812 $ 367 2005 808 404 2006 903 550 2007 910 619 2008 917 697 2009 924 783 2010 932 879 By the end of 2010, PECO will have fully recovered all of the stranded costs authorized by the PUC. As a result, PECO expects that both its revenues and expenses will decrease in 2011. The end of the transition period involves uncertainties, including the nature of PECOs POLR obligations and the source and pricing of generation services to be provided by PECO. PECO expects to pursue resolution of these uncertainties during the remaining transition period. PECO is and will continue to be involved in regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of PECOs costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, PECO looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grants some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. 89 Table of Contents PECO must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Increases in both customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. PECO cannot predict what impact these failures, or failures that impact other utilities such as the blackout in the Northeastern United States and Canada on August 14, 2003 (August Blackout), will have on its anticipated capital expenditures. Although PECO was not directly affected by the August Blackout, PECO may be indirectly affected going forward. Regulated utilities that are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Following the August Blackout, significant claims have been asserted against various other utilities on behalf of both customers and non customers for damages resulting from the blackout. PECO cannot predict whether these claims will be upheld or whether they or legislative or regulatory initiatives in response to the August Blackout will change the traditional liability protections of utilities in providing regulated service. PECO has lost and may continue to lose electric energy customers to other generation suppliers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of PECO will vary because of customer choice of electric generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Pennsylvania, all of PECOs retail electric customers may choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative electric generation suppliers. In addition, since MST requirements for customers taking service from alternative generation suppliers agreed to by PECO were not met, PECO has been required to assign both commercial and residential customers to alternative generation suppliers. In addition, customers who take service from an alternative generation supplier may later return to PECO. PECO remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation supplier. The number of customers taking service from alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that PECO is authorized to charge by the PUC. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation supplier, PECOs revenues are likely to decline and revenues and gross margins could vary from period to period. PECO continues to serve as POLR for electric energy for all customers in its service territories. Since PECO customers can switch, that is, within limits they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to PECO and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on, planning for PECO has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. PECO has no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. PECO manages its POLR obligation through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation supplies PECOs power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of PECO load that Generation must prepare for. This uncertainty increases Generations costs and may limit Generations sales opportunities. Weather affects electricity and gas usage and, consequently, PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, PECO typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter of its fiscal year. However, extreme summer conditions or storms may stress its transmission and distribution system, resulting in increased 90 Table of Contents maintenance costs and limiting its ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on its operations. Economic conditions and activity in PECOs service territories directly affect the demand for electricity and gas. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their average use of energy. Periods of recessionary economic conditions generally adversely affect PECOs results of operations. Sales growth from 2003 to 2004 on an annual basis is expected to be 1.3% in the service territory of PECO. Long term retail sales growth for electricity is expected to be 1.0% per year for PECO. PECOs business is affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. The electric utility industry in the United States is in transition. As a result of both legislative initiatives as well as competitive pressures, the industry has been moving from a fully regulated industry, consisting primarily of vertically integrated companies that combine generation, transmission and distribution, to a partially restructured industry, consisting of competitive wholesale generation markets and continued regulation of transmission and distribution. These developments have been somewhat uneven across the states as a result of the reaction to the problems experienced in California in 2000, the August Blackout and the publicized problems of some energy companies. Pennsylvania has adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. Regional Transmission Organizations / Standard Market Platform. The FERC has required jurisdictional utilities to provide open access to their transmission systems. It has also sought the voluntary development of regional transmission organizations (RTOs) and the elimination of trade barriers between regions. The FERC also proposed rulemakings to implement protocols to create a standard wholesale market platform for the wholesale markets for energy and capacity. PECO is a member of PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM), an approved RTO operating in the Mid Atlantic region. The FERCs RTO and standard market platform initiatives have generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. Efforts to develop an RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. PECO supports both of these FERC initiatives but cannot predict whether they will be successful, what impact they may ultimately have on its transmission rates, revenues and operation of its transmission facilities, or whether they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. To the extent that PECO has POLR obligations and may at some point no longer have long term supply contracts with Generation for their loads, the ability of PECO to cost effectively serve its POLR load obligations may depend on the continued operation of the PJM spot markets. One of the principal legislative initiatives of the Bush administration is the adoption of comprehensive federal energy legislation. In 2003, an energy bill was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives but was not voted on by the U.S. Senate. The energy bill, as currently written, would repeal the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA), create incentives for the construction of transmission infrastructure, encourage but not mandate standardized competitive markets and expand the authority of the FERC to include overseeing the reliability of the bulk power system. PECO cannot predict whether comprehensive energy legislation will be adopted and, if adopted, the final form of that legislation. PECO would expect that comprehensive energy legislation would, if adopted, significantly affect the electric utility industry and its businesses. Capital Markets and Financing Environment In order to expand PECOs operations and to meet the needs of its current and future customers, PECO invests in its business. PECOs ability to finance its business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the 91 Table of Contents capital intensive nature of its operations and PECOs current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of PECOs liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. PECOs ability to grow its business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. PECOs business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, PECO secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. PECO actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. PECO currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund its operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the need arises. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in PECO and Exelon and, general economic and capital market conditions. PECOs credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. PECO has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would cause PECO to incur higher financing costs. Market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy the future obligations under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans, in which PECO participates. PECO has significant obligations in these areas and Exelon holds significant assets in these trusts to meet these obligations. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase Exelons funding requirements for these obligations. PECO may be required to fund a portion of these increased funding requirements. PECOs results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects PECO through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the transmission and distribution rate cap that PECO operates under, PECO is not able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other PECOs financial performance will be affected by its ability to achieve the targeted cash savings under Exelons new Exelon Way business model. PECO has begun to implement Exelons new Exelon Way business model, which is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. Exelon has incurred expenses, including employee severance costs, associated with reaching these annual cash savings levels and is considering whether there are additional expenses to be recorded in future periods. Exelons targeted annual cash savings do 92 Table of Contents not reflect any expenses that may be incurred in future periods. Exelons inability to realize these annual cash savings levels in the targeted timeframes could adversely affect future financial performance. PECO may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. PECOs business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which PECO conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. PECO is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by PECO and of property contaminated by hazardous substances PECO generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, PECO has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations will be one component of such costs. Also, PECO is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2003, PECOs reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $50 million. PECO has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but PECO cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover PECOs environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether PECO will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by PECO, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. PECO currently is recovering through regulated gas rates costs associated with the remediation of MGP sites. PECOs financial performance is affected by increasing costs associated with additional security measures and obtaining adequate liability insurance. Security. The electric and gas industries have developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, the FERC issued minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system control. These standards will be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. The gas industry, through the American Gas Association, developed physical security guidelines that were accepted by the U.S. Department of Transportation. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and PECO is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. PECO, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within PECOs markets. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generating facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on PECOs results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 93 Table of Contents Generation Executive Summary 2003 has been a year of operating accomplishments and painful investment write offs. Generation has focused on living up to its commitments while pursuing greater productivity, quality and innovation. Financial Results. Generation realized a net loss of $133 million in 2003, a decline of $533 million from 2002 primarily due to a charge of $573 million (after tax) related to the impairment of the long lived assets of Boston Generating, LLC (Boston Generating), formerly known as Exelon Boston Generating, LLC. In addition, Generation incurred impairment and transaction related charges of $180 million (after tax) related to its investment in Sithe and severance and severance related charges associated with The Exelon Way. Generations 2003 results were favorably affected by modest improvements in wholesale energy prices, which increased its energy margins. Generation also recorded a one time after tax gain of $108 million upon the adoption of a new accounting standard that has a significant impact on how Generation accounts for its nuclear decommissioning obligation. The Exelon Way. Generation implemented The Exelon Way, an aggressive plan defining how it will conduct business in years to come. The Exelon Way is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. In addition to the severance and severance related charges Generation recorded during 2003, it may incur additional charges associated with The Exelon Way in future periods. Investment Strategy. Generation continued to follow a disciplined approach to investing to maximize the earnings and cash flows from its assets and businesses and to sell those that do not meet its goals. Generations 2003 highlights include: Generation announced its transition out of its ownership of Boston Generating in July 2003. Generation completed a series of transactions in November 2003 that restructured the ownership of Sithe, with Generation continuing to own a 50% interest in Sithe. Generation continues to pursue the divestiture of its investment in Sithe. Generation purchased British Energy plcs 50% interest in AmerGen Energy Company, LLC (AmerGen) in December 2003. AmerGen, which owns the Clinton Power Station, Three Mile Island Nuclear Station Unit 1 and the Oyster Creek Generating Station representing about 2,500 megawatts of capacity, is now a wholly owned subsidiary. Financing Activities. Generation issued $500 million of senior notes in 2003, and refinanced $17 million of outstanding pollution control bonds. Generation met all of its capital resource commitments with internally generated cash and expects to do so in the foreseeable future, absent new acquisitions. Operational Achievements. Generation focused on the core fundamentals of providing efficient generation to its customers. Generations nuclear business combined with other Exelon businesses to minimize the aftermath of Hurricane Isabel and helped to prevent the potentially detrimental cascading effects of the August 14, 2003 blackout in the Northeastern United States and Canada. Also, Generations nuclear fleet achieved a 93.4% capacity factor in 2003 compared to 92.7% in 2002 while reducing the costs of nuclear generation to 1.25 cents per kilowatthour. Outlook for 2004 and Beyond. In the short term, Generations financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including weather conditions, wholesale market prices, successful implementation of The Exelon Way and Generations ability to generate electricity at low costs. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, demand for energy generally will be favorably affected. Operating revenues will also be favorably affected by increases in wholesale market prices. Generations 94 Table of Contents continued transition out of ownership at Boston Generating, and the successful integration of the AmerGen acquisition into its nuclear fleet will continue to enhance its operations and overall investment return. Longer term, restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, whether debating regional transmission organization (RTO) or standard market platform issues at the FERC or the post transition format in many states. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (like California), some states are adjusting current transition plans (like New Jersey and Ohio), and the states of Illinois (by 2007) and Pennsylvania (by 2011) are considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. Generation will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations, controlling costs and providing a fair return to its investors. While U.S. economic recovery appears underway, Generations current plans are based on continued softness in wholesale power markets. Successful implementation of The Exelon Way is needed to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. Despite these challenges, Generations diverse mix of generation (nuclear, coal, purchased power, natural gas, hydroelectric, wind and other renewables) and its position as a low cost producer linked to a stable base of Exelon Energy Delivery customers will provide a solid platform from which it will strive to meet these challenges. 95 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2002 Significant Operating Trends Generation 2003 2002 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 1,277 18.6 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 3,587 3,294 293 8.9 % Fuel 1,533 959 574 59.9 % Operating and maintenance 1,945 1,656 289 17.5 % Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 n.m. Depreciation 199 276 (77 ) (27.9 )% Taxes other than income 120 164 (44 ) (26.8 )% Total operating expense 8,329 6,349 1,980 31.2 % OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) (194 ) 509 (703 ) (138.1 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (88 ) (75 ) (13 ) 17.3 % Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 49 87 (38 ) (43.7 )% Other, net (187 ) 83 (270 ) n.m. Total other income and deductions (226 ) 95 (321 ) n.m. INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (420 ) 604 (1,024 ) (169.5 )% INCOME TAXES (179 ) 217 (396 ) (182.5 )% INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (241 ) 387 (628 ) (162.3 )% CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES, (net of income taxes) 108 13 95 n.m. NET INCOME (LOSS) $ (133 ) $ 400 $ (533 ) (133.3 )% n.m. not meaningful Net Income Net income was adversely affected by the after tax impairment charges of $573 million relating to the long lived assets of Boston Generating and $180 million relating to Generations investment in Sithe Energies. Net income was favorably affected by increased revenue net fuel attributable to higher prices and volumes of wholesale energy, and the impact of the Exelon New England acquisition in 2002, slightly offset by decreased sales to affiliates. 96 Table of Contents Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased in 2003 as compared to 2002. Generations sales in 2003 and 2002 were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company $ 4,036 $ 4,213 $ (177 ) (4.2 )% Market sales 3,861 2,591 1,270 49.0 % Total energy sales revenue 7,897 6,804 1,093 16.1 % Trading portfolio 1 (29 ) 30 (103.4 )% Other revenue 237 83 154 185.5 % Total revenue $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 1,277 18.6 % Sales (in GWhs) (1) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company 117,405 123,975 (6,570 ) (5.3 )% Market sales 107,267 83,565 23,702 28.4 % Total sales 224,672 207,540 17,132 8.3 % (1) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWhs. Trading volumes of 32,584 GWhs and 69,933 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2003, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Generations average revenues per MWh sold for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2003 2002 % Change Average revenue Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company $ 34.38 $ 33.98 1.2 % Market sales 35.99 31.01 16.1 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 35.15 32.78 7.2 % Exelon Delivery and Exelon Energy Company. Sales to affiliates decreased primarily due to lower volume sales to ComEd, offset by slightly higher prices. Revenues from PECO were lower, primarily due to lower prices, offset slightly by higher volumes. Sales to Exelon Energy Company decreased primarily due to the discontinuance of Exelon Energy Company operations in the PJM region. Effective January 1, 2004, Exelon Energy Companys competitive retail sales business became part of Generation. Market Sales. Revenue from market sales increased due primarily to higher market prices and the realization of the effects of the Exelon New England acquisition. Trading Revenues. Trading margin increased, reflecting a $1 million gain for the year ended December 31, 2003 as compared to a $29 million loss in the same period in 2002. The increase is primarily related to an increase in gas prices in April 2002, which negatively affected Generations trading positions. Other Revenue. Revenues also increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, as a result of a $76 million increase in sales of excess fossil fuel. The excess fossil fuel is a result of generating plants in Texas and New England operating at less than projected levels. Also, revenues increased by $62 million due to higher decommissioning revenue received from ComEd in 2003 compared to 2002. 97 Table of Contents Purchased Power and Fuel Generations supply of sales in 2003 and 2002, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2003 2002 % Change Nuclear generation (1) 117,502 115,854 1.4 % Purchases non trading portfolio (2) 82,860 78,710 5.3 % Fossil and hydroelectric generation 24,310 12,976 87.3 % Total supply 224,672 207,540 8.3 % (1) Excluding AmerGen. (2) Including purchased power agreements with AmerGen. ($/MWh) 2003 2002 % Change Average supply cost (1) excluding trading portfolio $ 22.79 $ 20.49 11.2 % (1) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs. Generations supply mix changed as a result of: Increased nuclear generation due to a lower number of refueling outages during 2003 as compared to 2002, Increased fossil generation due to the Exelon New England plants acquired in November 2002, which became operational in the second and third quarters of 2003 and account for an increase of 8,426 GWhs, and Additional purchase power of 3,320 GWhs due to the acquisition of Exelon New England, a new PPA with AmerGen which increased 3,049 GWhs in the second quarter of 2003, as well as 11,989 GWhs of other miscellaneous power purchases which more than offset a 14,208 GWh decrease in purchased power from Midwest Generation. The increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a 5.3% increase in purchased power volume and an increase of $3.50/MWh in the average market price of purchased power between 2003 and 2002. Fuel expense increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, as summarized below: (in millions) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (1) $ 502 $ 483 $ 19 3.9 % Fossil and hydroelectric generation 1,031 476 555 116.6 % Total supply $ 1,533 $ 959 $ 574 59.9 % (1) Excluding AmerGen. The increase was principally attributable to increased fossil fuel purchases related to generating asset acquisitions in Texas and New England in 2002, as well as increased peaking production due to summer demand and higher average prices. Operating and Maintenance The increase in operating and maintenance (O&M) expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to $60 million of severance and related postretirement health and welfare benefits accruals and pension and postretirement curtailment costs associated with The Exelon Way and $197 million of accretion expense related to the new decommissioning accounting policy as a result of implementing SFAS No. 143. 98 Table of Contents Accretion expense includes $153 million of accretion of the asset retirement obligation and $44 million to adjust the earnings impact of certain of the nuclear decommissioning revenues earned from ComEd and PECO, nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment income related to certain nuclear facilities, income taxes incurred on certain nuclear decommissioning trust fund activities, accretion of the asset retirement obligation and depreciation of the asset retirement cost asset to zero. The increase in O&M was also due to $54 million of additional employee payroll and benefits costs and $78 million of additional expenses due to generating asset acquisitions made in 2002. Also, Generation recorded an impairment charge of $7 million in 2003, of which $5 million is related to the pending retirement of Mystic Station Units 4, 5 and 6. These increases were partially offset by $49 million of lower nuclear refueling outage costs, including $19 million for Generations ownership interest in Salem, which is operated by the co owner, PSE&G, executive severance expense recorded in 2002 of $19 million, an $8 million reduction in workers compensation expense and $31 million related to other non recurring items. 2003 2002 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (1) 93.4 % 92.7 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (1) $ 12.53 $ 13.00 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 43.29 $ 41.85 (1) Including AmerGen and excluding Salem. The higher nuclear capacity factor and decreased production costs are primarily due to 56 fewer planned refueling outage days, resulting in a $36 million decrease in outage costs, including a $6 million decrease related to AmerGen, in 2003 as compared to 2002. The years ended 2003 and 2002 included 30 and 26 unplanned outages, respectively, resulting in a $2 million increase in non refueling outage costs in 2003 as compared to 2002. Depreciation and Amortization The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to a $130 million reduction in decommissioning expense net of ARC depreciation, as these costs are included in operating and maintenance expense after the adoption of SFAS No. 143 and a $12 million decrease due to life extensions of assets acquired in 2002. The decrease was partially offset by $65 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service in 2002, of which $18 million of expense is related to plant acquisitions made after the third quarter of 2002. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased in 2003 compared to 2002 due primarily to a $20 million decrease in property taxes, a $13 million decrease in the Pennsylvania capital stock tax and Texas franchise tax, and a $6 million decrease in payroll taxes. Interest Expense The increase in interest expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 is due to $18 million of higher interest related to the Boston Generating project debt outstanding in 2003 as well as the outstanding Sithe note. The increase was partially offset by a $14 million decrease resulting from interest expense no longer being recorded to offset decommissioning interest income in 2003. This offset is currently included as accretion expense in operating and maintenance expense. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2003 as compared to 2002 was due to a decrease of $21 million in the equity in earnings of Sithe, which was primarily the result of the sale of Sithe New Englands assets to Generation in November 2002. A decrease of $17 million in the equity in earnings of AmerGen also contributed to the overall decrease, which was primarily due to lower PPA revenues at AmerGen and increases in severance costs during 2003. 99 Table of Contents Other, Net The decrease in other, net in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily a result of $255 million of impairment charges related to Generations equity investment in Sithe due to an other than temporary decline in value and a $25 million loss resulting from the subsequent sale of 50% of the assets of Sithe to Reservoir (see Note 3 to Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). These decreases were partially offset by $16 million increase in decommissioning trust fund investment income. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 42.6% for 2003 compared to 35.9% for 2002. This increase was primarily attributable to the impairments recorded in 2003 related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating and Generations investment in Sithe, which resulted in a pre tax loss. Other adjustments that affected income taxes include a decrease in tax exempt interest recorded in 2003 and an increase in nuclear decommissioning investment income for 2003. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2003, Generation adopted SFAS No. 143 resulting in a benefit of $108 million (net of income taxes of $70 million). On January 1, 2002, Generation adopted SFAS No. 142 resulting in a benefit of $13 million (net of income taxes of $9 million). Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends Generation 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 32 0.5 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 3,294 3,106 188 6.1 % Fuel 959 889 70 7.9 % Operating and maintenance 1,656 1,528 128 8.4 % Depreciation 276 282 (6 ) (2.1 )% Taxes other than income 164 149 15 10.1 % Total operating expense 6,349 5,954 395 6.6 % OPERATING INCOME 509 872 (363 ) (41.6 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (75 ) (115 ) 40 (34.8 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 87 90 (3 ) (3.3 )% Other, net 83 (8 ) 91 n.m. Total other income and deductions 95 (33 ) 128 n.m. INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 604 839 (235 ) (28.0 )% INCOME TAXES 217 327 (110 ) (33.6 )% INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 387 512 (125 ) (24.4 )% CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES, (net of income taxes) 13 12 1 8.3 % NET INCOME $ 400 $ 524 $ (124 ) (23.7 )% n.m. not meaningful 100 Table of Contents Net Income Net income in 2002 was adversely affected by a lower margin on wholesale energy sales due to depressed market prices for energy, a reduced supply of low cost nuclear generation, and increased operating and maintenance expense. The decrease was partially offset by increased revenue from the acquisition of two generating plants in April 2002, increased investment income, decreased depreciation expense and decreased interest expense. Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased in 2002 as compared to 2001. For 2002 and 2001, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company $ 4,213 $ 4,089 $ 124 3.0 % Market sales 2,591 2,676 (85 ) (3.2 )% Total energy sales revenue 6,804 6,765 39 0.6 % Trading portfolio (29 ) 7 (36 ) n.m. Other revenue 83 54 29 53.7 % Total revenue $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 32 0.5 % n.m. not meaningful Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company 123,975 123,793 0.1 % Market sales 83,565 72,333 15.5 % Total sales 207,540 196,126 5.8 % Trading volume of 69,933 GWhs and 5,754 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, is not included in the table above. Generations average revenue, supply cost, and margin on energy sales for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2002 2001 % Change Average revenue Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company $ 33.98 $ 33.05 2.8 % Market sales 31.01 37.00 (16.2 )% Total excluding the trading portfolio 32.78 34.51 (5.0 )% Exelon Delivery and Exelon Energy Company. Sales to affiliates increased by $124 million. The increase was primarily attributable to higher prices under PPAs. Also, Generation had higher volume sales to ComEd, offset by slightly lower volume sales to PECO and Exelon Energy Company. Market Sales. Revenue from market sales decreased primarily due to a $6/MWh decrease in average market prices in 2002 compared to 2001. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in market sales volume. Trading Revenues. Trading revenue decreased, reflecting a $29 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to a $7 million gain in the same period in 2001. The decrease was primarily related to an increase in gas prices in April 2002, which negatively affected Generations trading positions. 101 Table of Contents Other Revenue. Other revenue increased $29 million in 2002 as compared to 2001, primarily as a result of increased gas sales resulting from the Texas generating asset acquisitions in April 2002. Purchased Power and Fuel Generations supply of sales in 2002 and 2001, excluding the trading portfolio, were as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Nuclear generation (1) 115,854 116,839 (0.8 )% Purchases non trading portfolio (2) 78,710 67,942 15.8 % Fossil and hydroelectric generation 12,976 11,345 14.4 % Total supply 207,540 196,126 5.8 % (1) Excluding AmerGen. (2) Including PPAs with AmerGen. The increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to increased power supplied to Generation which resulted in a 15.8% increase in purchased power volume. This was partially offset by average purchased power cost decreasing by $4.11/MWh for 2002 as compared to 2001. This decrease in average purchased power cost was principally attributable to lower realized wholesale market prices and reduced transmission costs. The increase in fuel expense in 2002 was primarily attributable to increased fossil fuel purchases related to generating asset acquisitions in Texas and New England, as well as increased peaking production due to summer demand. Operating and Maintenance The increase in O&M expense in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to the additional expense of $80 million arising from an increased number of nuclear plant refueling outages during 2002 compared to 2001. Also, O&M expense increased $21 million due to plants acquired in 2002, as well as additional allocated corporate costs, including executive severance. These additional expenses were partially offset by other operating cost reductions, including $8 million related to fewer employees, a $10 million reduction in Generations severance accrual and other cost reductions from an Exelon cost management initiative. The severance reduction represents a reversal of costs previously charged to operating expense. 2002 2001 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (1) 92.7 % 94.4 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (1) $ 13.00 $ 12.78 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 41.85 $ 45.94 (1) Including AmerGen and excluding Salem. Depreciation and Amortization The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to a $42 million reduction in depreciation expense arising from the extension of the useful lives on certain generating facilities in 2001, partially offset by $32 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service, including the Southeast Chicago Energy Project in July 2002, and two generating plants acquired in April 2002. 102 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased in 2002 as compared to 2001 due primarily to an $8 million increase in property taxes. Interest Expense The decrease in interest expense in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to a $19 million reduction in interest charges on the spent nuclear fuel obligation because of lower rates, and $33 million of lower affiliate interest expense. The decrease was partially offset by a $21 million increase in interest expense due to newly acquired long term debt associated with Exelon New England. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to a $5 million decrease in Generations equity earnings in AmerGen, primarily due to an increase in pension, medical, and incentive cost, partially offset by an increase in revenue. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $2 million in Generations equity earnings in Sithe. Other, Net The increase in other, net in 2002 as compared to 2001 was primarily due to a $103 million increase in decommissioning trust fund investment income, partially offset by a $6 million decrease in affiliate interest income, and a $6 million decrease due to losses on the disposal and retirement of Generation assets. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 35.9% for 2002 compared to 39.0% for 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in tax exempt interest recorded in 2002 and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2001, Generation adopted SFAS No. 133, as amended, resulting in a benefit of $12 million (net of income taxes of $7 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool and or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations working capital deficit is expected to be cured with its anticipated continuance of positive operating cash flows and the eventual elimination of its Boston Generating debt balance upon the transfer of its ownership of Boston Generating. We anticipate that the transfer of Boston Generating will be accomplished on a non cash basis. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to external financing sources at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, investments in new and existing ventures, repayments of maturing debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Any future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. As part of the implementation of The Exelon Way, Generation identified approximately 470 positions for elimination by the end of 2004 and recorded a charge for salary continuance severance of $33 million before income taxes during 2003, which Generation anticipates that the majority will be paid in 2004 and 2005. Generation is considering whether there are additional positions to be eliminated in 2005 and 2006. Generation may incur further severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way if additional positions are identified to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. 103 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including Generations affiliated companies, as well as settlements arising from Generations trading activities. Generations future cash flow from operating activities will depend upon future demand and market prices for energy and the ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Cash flows from operations have been and are expected to continue to provide a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements for the foreseeable future. See Business Outlook and Challenges in Managing our Business. Cash flows provided by operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $1,453 million and $1,150 million, respectively. Changes in Generations cash flows from operations are generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as further adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business and non cash charges. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operation, Generations operating cash flows in 2003 were affected by the following items: Sales to ComEd decreased in 2003 in line with the lower load requirements of the territory due to the customer choice initiative. Greater mark to market activity in 2002 resulted in higher cash inflows from proprietary trading activities in 2002 compared to 2003. Discretionary contributions to Exelons defined benefit pension plans of $145 million in 2003 compared to $60 million in 2002. Generation participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon expects to make a discretionary pension plan contribution up to approximately $419 million in 2004, of which $170 million is expected to be funded by Generation. Of the $170 million expected to be contributed to the pension plan during 2004, $17 million is estimated to be needed to satisfy IRS minimum funding requirements for the pension plan obligations assumed in the AmerGen acquisition in December 2003. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,301 million in 2003, compared to $1,686 million in 2002. Capital expenditures, including investment in nuclear fuel, were $953 million in 2003, and primarily represent additions to nuclear fuel as well as the construction of three Boston Generating facilities with projected capacity of 2,288 MWs of energy and additions and upgrades to the existing facilities. Capital expenditures were offset by $92 million of liquidating damages received from Raytheon as a result of Raytheon not meeting the expected completion date and certain contractual performance criteria in connection with Raytheons construction of the Boston Generating facilities. On November 25, 2003, Generation, Reservoir, and Sithe completed a series of transactions resulting in Generation and Reservoir each indirectly owning a 50% interest in Sithe. See Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interest Entities below for further information regarding this transaction. In addition, a note receivable was received from EXRES SHC, Inc. for $92 million. In December 2003, Generation purchased the 50% interest in AmerGen held by British Energy plc for $240 million, net of cash acquired of $36 million. The acquisition was funded with cash provided by operations. 104 Table of Contents In February 2002, Generation entered into an agreement to loan AmerGen up to $75 million at an interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 2.25%. As of December 31, 2002, the balance of the loan to AmerGen was $35 million, which was repaid in its entirety during 2003. In April 2002, Generation purchased two natural gas and oil fired generating plants from TXU for $443 million. The purchase was funded with commercial paper, which Exelon issued and Generation repaid with cash flows from operations. In November 2002, Generation purchased Exelon New England, which resulted in a use of cash of $2 million, net of $12 million of cash acquired. The remainder of the purchase price was financed with a $534 million note payable to Sithe, which was subsequently increased to $536 million. At December 31, 2003, Generation had repaid $446 million of the note payable to Sithe, leaving a balance of $90 million, which is payable on the earlier of December 1, 2004, upon reaching certain Sithe liquidity requirements, or upon a change of control. Capital expenditures for 2004 are projected to be $972 million. Generation anticipates that nuclear refueling outages will increase from eight in 2003 to ten in 2004. Generations capital expenditures are expected to be funded by internally generated funds. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities were $52 million in 2003, compared to $370 million cash provided in 2002. The decrease in cash flows used in financing activities was primarily a result of the retirement of debt of $570 million and the repayment of the acquisition note payable to Sithe of $446 million. Additional decreases resulted from the payment of distributions totaling $189 million and lower borrowings from affiliates resulting in $242 million of the change from the prior year. This decrease was partially offset by the issuance of $500 million of unsecured notes in December 2003 and the bridge financing facility of $550 million. Financing activities in 2003 exclude the $17 million non cash distribution to PECO and in 2002 exclude the non cash issuance of a $534 million note (subsequently increased to $536 million) issued to Sithe for the acquisition of the Sithe New England assets and approximately $1.0 billion of Sithe New England long term debt, which is reflected in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility. Generation meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and intercompany borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. In October 2003, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation replaced their $1.5 billion bank unsecured revolving credit facility with a $750 million 364 day unsecured revolving credit agreement and a $750 million 3 year unsecured revolving credit agreement with a group of banks. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. The 364 day agreement also includes a term out option provision that allows a borrower to extend the maturity of revolving credit borrowings outstanding at the end of the 364 day period for one year. At December 31, 2003, Generations aggregate sublimit under the credit agreements was $250 million. Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. Generation had approximately $170 million of unused bank commitments under the credit agreements at December 31, 2003. Generation did not have any commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. Interest rates on the advances under the credit facility are based on either the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) or prime plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum adder would be 175 basis points. Certain of the credit agreements to which Generation is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes certain changes in working capital and interest on Exelon New Englands debt. Generations threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreements cannot be less than 3.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, Generation was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. 105 Table of Contents Capital Structure. At December 31, 2003, Generations capital structure consisted of 48% members equity, 8% notes payable and 44% long term debt. Long term debt includes $1.2 billion of senior unsecured notes and $1.0 billion Boston Generating project debt, representing 36% of capitalization. Boston Generating Project Debt. Boston Generating has a $1.25 billion credit facility (Boston Generating Facility), which was entered into primarily to finance the development and construction of generating projects known as Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River. Approximately $1.0 billion of debt was outstanding under the Boston Generating Facility at December 31, 2003, all of which was reflected in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as a current liability due to certain events of default described below. The Boston Generating Facility is non recourse to Generation and an event of default under the Boston Generating Facility does not constitute an event of default under any other of Generations debt instruments or the debt instruments of its subsidiaries. The Boston Generating Facility required that all of the projects achieve Project Completion, as defined in the Boston Generating Facility (Project Completion) by July 12, 2003. Project Completion was not achieved by July 12, 2003, resulting in an event of default under the Boston Generating Facility. Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River have begun commercial operation, although they have not yet achieved Project Completion. Generation has commenced the process of an orderly transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating and the Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River generating projects. Generations decision to transition out of the projects was made as a result of its evaluation of the projects and discussions with the lenders under the Boston Generating Facility. We anticipate that this transition will occur in 2004. Generation Revolving Credit Facilities. On September 29, 2003, Generation closed on an $850 million revolving credit facility that replaced a $550 million revolving credit facility that had originally closed on June 13, 2003. Generation used the facility to make the first payment to Sithe relating to the $536 million note that was used to purchase Exelon New England. This note was restructured in June 2003 to provide for a payment of $210 million of the principal on June 16, 2003, payment of $236 million of the principal on the earlier of December 1, 2003 or upon a change of control of Generation, and payment of the remaining principal on the earlier of December 1, 2004, upon reaching certain Sithe liquidity requirements, or upon a change of control of Generation. Generation paid $446 million on the note to Sithe in 2003. Generation terminated the $850 million revolving credit facility on December 22, 2003. Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that could be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary, Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon Corporate may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. During 2003, Generation had various borrowings from the money pool. The maximum amount of borrowings outstanding at any time during 2003 by Generation was $395 million. As of December 31, 2003, Generation owed the money pool $301 million on these loans. For the year ended December 31, 2003, Generation paid $2 million in interest to the money pool. 106 Table of Contents Security Ratings. Generations access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. In the fourth quarter of 2003, Standard & Poors Ratings Services affirmed Generations corporate credit ratings but revised its outlook to negative from stable. None of Generations borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows Generations securities ratings at December 31, 2003: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings Senior unsecured debt Baa1 A BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generations counterparties and Generation to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Fund Transfer Restrictions. Under applicable law, Generation can only pay dividends from undistributed or current earnings. Generation is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. At December 31, 2003, Generation had undistributed earnings of $602 million. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations Generations contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003 are as follows: Payment Due within Due After 5 Years (in millions) Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years Long term debt $ 2,728 $ 1,068 $ 23 $ 20 $ 1,617 Short term note to Sithe 90 90 Intercompany money pool 301 301 Short term obligation to Exelon 115 115 Operating leases 564 21 53 52 438 Power purchase obligations 10,475 2,635 1,827 1,410 4,603 Fuel purchase agreements 3,034 476 825 582 1,151 Other purchase commitments 54 19 22 13 Obligation to minority shareholders 54 3 6 6 39 Pension IRS minimum funding requirement 17 17 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 867 867 Total contractual obligations $ 18,299 $ 4,745 $ 2,756 $ 2,083 $ 8,715 107 Table of Contents See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt, see Note 8 short term note to Sithe, see Note 15 intercompany money pool, see Note 15 short term obligation to Exelon, see Note 15 operating leases, see Note 13 power purchase obligations, see Note 13 obligation to minority shareholders, see Note 13 pension IRS minimum funding requirement, see Note 11 spent nuclear fuel obligation, see Note 10 Two affiliates of Exelon New England have long term supply agreements through December 2022 with Distrigas for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreements, prices are indexed to New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed these entities financial obligations to Distrigas under the Distrigas agreements. It is currently anticipated that Exelon New Englands guaranty to Distrigas will continue following the eventual transfer of the ownership interests in Boston Generating. This guaranty is non recourse to Generation. At December 31, 2003, Exelon New England had net assets of approximately $70 million, exclusive of the Boston Generating net assets. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143), Generation was required to re measure its decommissioning liabilities at fair value and recorded an asset retirement obligation of $2.4 billion on January 1, 2003. Increases in the asset retirement obligation are recorded as operating and maintenance expense. At December 31, 2003, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet was $3.0 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired and are currently estimated to begin in 2029 for plants currently in operation. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $4.7 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2003. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Generations commercial commitments as of December 31, 2003. Variable Interest Entities. Generation is a 50% owner of Sithe and accounts for the investment as an unconsolidated equity investment. Based on managements interpretation of FIN No. 46 R, it is reasonably possible that Generation will consolidate Sithe as of March 31, 2004. At December 31, 2003, Sithe had total assets of $1.5 billion (including the $90 million note from Generation) and total debt of $1.0 billion. The $1.0 billion of debt includes $588 million of subsidiary debt incurred primarily to finance the construction of six new generating facilities, $419 million of subordinated debt, $43 million of current portion of long term debt, but excludes $469 million of non recourse debt associated with Sithes equity investments. For the year ended December 31, 2003, Sithe had revenues of $690 million and incurred a net loss of approximately $72 million. Generation contractually does not own any interest in Sithe International, a subsidiary of Sithe. As such, a portion of Sithes net assets and results of operations would be eliminated from Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income through a minority interest if Sithe is consolidated under FIN No. 46 R as of March 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2003, Generation had a $47 million investment in Sithe. 108 Table of Contents In 2003, Generation recorded impairment charges of $255 million (before income taxes) in other income and deductions within the Consolidated Statements of Income associated with a decline in the fair value of the Sithe investment, which was considered to be other than temporary. Generation considered various factors in the decision to impair this investment, including its negotiations to sell its interest in Sithe and the completion of the transactions described below. The discussions surrounding the sale and the resulting transactions indicated that the fair value of the Sithe investment was below its book value and, as such, an impairment was required. On November 25, 2003, Generation, Reservoir and Sithe completed a series of transactions resulting in Generation and Reservoir each indirectly owning a 50% interest in Sithe. The series of transactions is described below. Immediately prior to these transactions, Sithe was owned 49.9% by Generation, 35.2% by Apollo Energy, LLC (Apollo), and 14.9% by subsidiaries of Marubeni Corporation (Marubeni). Entities controlled by Reservoir purchased certain Sithe entities holding six U.S. generating facilities, each a qualifying facility under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, in exchange for $37 million ($21 million in cash and a $16 million two year note); and entities controlled by Marubeni purchased all of Sithes entities and facilities outside of North America (other than Sithe Energies Australia (SEA) of which it purchased a 49% interest on November 24, 2003 for separate consideration) for $178 million. Marubeni agreed to acquire the remaining 51% of SEA in 90 days if a buyer is not found, although discussions regarding an extension are ongoing. Following the sales of the above entities, Generation transferred its wholly owned subsidiary that held the Sithe investment to a newly formed holding company. The subsidiary holding the Sithe investment acquired the remaining Sithe interests from Apollo and Marubeni for $612 million using proceeds from a $580 million bridge financing and available cash. Generation sold a 50% interest in the newly formed holding company for $76 million to an entity controlled by Reservoir on November 25, 2003. On November 26, 2003, Sithe distributed $580 million of available cash to its parent, which then utilized the distributed funds to repay the bridge financing. In connection with this transaction, Generation recorded obligations related to $39 million of guarantees in accordance with FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN No. 45). These guarantees were issued to protect Reservoir from credit exposure of certain counter parties through 2015 and other indemnities. In determining the value of the FIN No. 45 guarantees, Generation utilized a probabilistic model to assess the possibilities of future payments under the guarantees. Both Generation and Reservoirs 50% interests in Sithe are subject to put and call options that could result in either party owning 100% of Sithe. While Generations intent is to fully divest Sithe, the timing of the put and call options vary by acquirer and can extend through March 2006. The pricing of the put and call options is dependent on numerous factors, such as the acquirer, date of acquisition and assets owned by Sithe at the time of exercise. Any closing under either the put or call options is conditioned upon obtaining state and federal regulatory approvals. Other Generations cash flow hedges are affected by commodity prices. These hedge contracts primarily represent forward sales of Generations excess capacity that it expects to deliver. The majority of these contracts are for delivery within one year. These contracts have specified credit limits pursuant to standardized contract terms and require that cash collateral be posted when the limits are exceeded. When power prices increase relative to Generations forward sales prices, it can be subject to collateral calls if Generation exceeds its credit limits. However, when power prices return to previous levels or when Generation delivers the power under its forward contracts, the collateral would be returned to Generation with no impact on its results of operations. Generation believes that it has sufficient capability to fund any collateral requirements that could be reasonably expected to occur. 109 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business The U.S. electric generation, transmission and distribution industry is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. Generation operates in a highly competitive environment which is capital intensive. The challenges affecting Generations business are discussed below. Further discussion of Generations liquidity position and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. Generation must effectively manage its power portfolio to meet its contractual commitments and to handle changes in the wholesale power markets. The majority of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under long term PPAs to ComEd and PECO. To the extent the portfolio is not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold in the wholesale market. Generations ability to grow is dependent upon its ability to cost effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, to manage its power portfolio and to effectively handle changes in the wholesale power markets. The scope and scale of Generations nuclear generation resources provide a cost advantage in meeting its contractual commitments and enable it to sell power in the wholesale markets. Generations resources include interests in 11 nuclear generation stations, consisting of 19 units. Generations nuclear fleet, excluding AmerGens three units, generated 117,502 GWhs, or more than half of its total supply, in 2003. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can take advantage of its scale and scope to negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generations nuclear plants benefit from stable fuel costs, minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history. Generations financial performance may be affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. The ownership and operation of nuclear facilities involve risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human error; costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; and uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear facilities at the end of their useful lives. The material risks known or currently anticipated that could affect Generations ability to sustain its current levels of profitability are: Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low 110 Table of Contents variable costs due to low fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear generating facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors would increase Generations operating costs and could require Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally are at a higher cost than Generation otherwise would have incurred to generate energy from its own nuclear stations. Refueling outages. Outages at nuclear stations to replenish fuel require the station to be turned off. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 26 days in duration. Generation has significantly decreased the length of refueling outages in recent years. However, when refueling outages last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each twenty six day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including AmerGen, will increase to ten in 2004 from nine in 2003. Maintenance expenditures are expected to increase by approximately $20 million in 2004 as compared to 2003 as a result of the increased number of nuclear refueling outages. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of its operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, have resulted in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization and or increased outage costs and could continue to do so. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Life extensions. Generations nuclear facilities are currently operating under 40 year NRC licenses. Generation has applied for 20 year extensions for the licenses that will be expiring in the next ten years, excluding licenses for the AmerGen facilities. Generation anticipates filing a request for a license extension for Oyster Creek and is evaluating the other AmerGen facilities for possible extension. Generation has received a 20 year extension of the license for the Peach Bottom units, but Generation cannot predict whether any of the other pending extensions will be granted. Generation intends to evaluate opportunities, as permitted by the NRC, to apply for life extensions to some or all of the remaining licenses. If the extensions are granted, Generation cannot be sure that it will be willing to operate the facilities for all or any portion of the extended license. If the NRC does not extend the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations, its results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operation or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally, including Generations, has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting 111 Table of Contents liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operation or financial position. Nuclear liability insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The limit as of January 1, 2004 is $10.9 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. The Price Anderson Act expired on August 1, 2002 and was subsequently extended to the end of 2003 by the U.S. Congress. Only facilities applying for NRC licenses subsequent to expiration of the Price Anderson Act are affected. Existing commercial generating facilities, such as those owned and operated by Generation, remain subject to the provisions of the Price Anderson Act and are unaffected by its expiration. Decommissioning. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, other than the AmerGen facilities, the ICC permits ComEd, and the PUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. The ICC permitted ComEd to recover $73 million per year from retail customers for decommissioning for the years 2001 through 2004, and, depending upon the portion of the output of certain generating stations taken by ComEd, up to $73 million annually in 2005 and 2006. Subsequent to 2006, there will be no further recoveries of decommissioning costs from ComEds customers. Effective January 1, 2004, PECO will be permitted to recover $33 million annually for nuclear decommissioning. Generation expects that these collections will continue through the operating license life of each of the former PECO units, with adjustments every five years to reflect changes in cost estimates and decommissioning trust fund performance. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired and are currently estimated to begin in 2029 for plants currently in operation. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $4.7 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2003. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) with scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2003, Generation had a number of units, which, at current market levels, are being funded at a rate less than anticipated with respect to the NRCs Funding Levels. Generation will submit its next biennial report to the NRC at the end of March 2005. At that time, Generation will address potential actions, in accordance with NRC requirements, to assure that Generation will remain adequately funded compared to the NRC Funding Levels. In 2003, the General Accounting Office (GAO) published a study on the NRCs need for more effective analyses to ensure the adequate accumulation of funds to decommission nuclear power plants in the United States. As it has in the past, the GAO concluded that accumulated and future proposed funding was inadequate to achieve NRC Funding Levels at a number of U.S. nuclear plants, including a number of Generations plants. Generation has reviewed the GAOs report and believe that, in reaching its conclusions, the GAO did not consider all aspects of Generations decommissioning strategy, such as fund growth during the decommissioning period. The inclusion of estimated earnings growth on Generations nuclear trust funds during the decommissioning period virtually eliminates any funding shortfalls identified in the GAO report. In spite of any temporary shortfall in NRC Funding Levels, Generation currently believes that the amounts in nuclear decommissioning trust funds and future collections from ratepayers, together with earnings thereon, will provide adequate funding to decommission its nuclear facilities in accordance with regulatory requirements. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant 112 Table of Contents judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, when decommissioning activities are initiated, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to identify other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Generation relies on electric transmission facilities that it does not own or control. If operations at these facilities are disrupted or do not provide Generation with adequate transmission capacity, it may not be able to deliver its wholesale electric power to the purchasers of the power. Generation depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other companies to deliver the power that it sells at wholesale. If transmission at these facilities is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, Generation may not be able to sell and deliver its wholesale power. While Generation was not significantly affected by the failure in the transmission grid that served a large portion of the Northeastern United States and Canada on August 14, 2003, the North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at a point within the grid can cause a systemic response that results in an extensive power outage. If a regions power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, Generations recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. In addition, if restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. Generation also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. Generation is directly affected by price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. To the extent Generation does not supply power to serve the needs of ComEd and PECO, Generations cash flows will largely be determined by wholesale prices of electricity and its ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. In the event that lower wholesale prices of electricity reduce Generations current or forecasted cash flows, the carrying value of Generations generating units may be determined to be impaired. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money or energy as a result of market transactions will not perform their obligations. For example, energy supplied by third party generators, including Sithe, under long term agreements represents a significant portion of Generations overall capacity. These generators face operational risks, such as those that Generation faces, and their ability to perform depends on their financial condition. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to honor the underlying commitment at then current market prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of 113 Table of Contents which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. These policies include counterparty credit limits and, in some cases, require deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties. These agreements reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. Immature Markets. The wholesale spot markets are new and evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. While the FERC has proposed initiatives to standardize wholesale spot markets, Generation cannot predict whether that effort will be successful, what form any of these markets will eventually take or what roles Generation will play in them. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. The Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolios. This activity, along with the effects of any specialized accounting for trading contracts, may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements to ComEd and PECO. Extreme summer conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse affect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generation incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Excess capacity. Energy prices are also affected by the amount of supply available in a region. In the markets where Generation sells power, there has been a significant increase in the number of new power plants commencing commercial operations which has driven down power prices over the last few years. In fact, an excess supply situation currently exists in many parts of the country which has reduced prices in the wholesale markets and adversely affected Generations profitability. We cannot predict when these regions will return to more normal levels in the supply demand balance. Generations business is also affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations / Standard Market Platform. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources and to take advantage of price opportunities. 114 Table of Contents Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features that may create trading barriers among the markets. The FERC has proposed initiatives, including Order 2000 and the proposed wholesale market platform rule, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers. These initiatives, however, have not yet led to the development of such markets in all areas of the country. PJMs market strongly resembles the FERCs proposal, and both the New England Independent System Operator (NE ISO) and the New York Independent System operator (NYISO) are implementing market reforms. Generation strongly encourages the development of standardized energy markets and supports the FERCs standardization efforts as being essential to wholesale competition in the energy industry and to Generations ability to compete on a national basis and to meet its long term contractual commitments efficiently. Approximately 27% of Generations generating assets, which includes directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. If the PJM market is expanded to the Midwest, 79% of Generations generating assets would be located within that market. The PJM market has been the most successful and liquid regional market. Generations future results of operations may be affected by the successful expansion of that market to the Midwest and the implementation of any market changes mandated by the FERC. Provider of Last Resort. As discussed above, ComEd and PECO each have POLR obligations that they have effectively transferred to Generation through full requirements contracts. Because the choice of electricity generation supplier lies with the customer, planning to meet these obligations has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. It is difficult for Generation to plan the energy demand of ComEd and PECO customers. The uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd and PECO load for which Generation must prepare increases Generations costs. A significant under estimation of ComEds and PECOs electric load requirements could result in Generation not having enough power to cover its supply obligation, in which case Generation would be required to buy power from third parties or in the spot markets at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be as favorable or as manageable as Generations long term supply expenses and thus could increase total costs. Effective management of capital projects is important to Generations business. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation. The inability of Generation to effectively manage its capital projects could adversely affect its results from operations. In 2002, Generation purchased the assets of Sithe New England Holdings, LLC (now known as Exelon New England), a subsidiary of Sithe, and related power marketing operations. Due to the reduction in power prices and delays in construction completion, in July 2003, Generation commenced the process of an orderly transition out of the ownership of the Boston Generating assets. Generation recorded an impairment charge of $945 million before income taxes related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating as a result of its decision to exit these facilities. Charges could result from decisions to exit other investments or projects in the future. These charges could have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. In recent years, IPPs and the generation companies of disaggregated utilities have installed new generating capacity at a pace greater than the growth of electricity demand. These new generating facilities may be more efficient than Generations 115 Table of Contents facilities. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. Power Teams risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its power trading activities. Power Teams power trading (including fuel procurement and power marketing) activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage its exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always be followed or may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. Even when Generations policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be wrong or inaccurate. Factors such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its power trading and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Capital Markets and Financing Environment In order to expand Generations operations and to meet the needs of current and future customers, Generation invests in its business. The ability to finance Generations business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of Generations operations and Generations current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets and Generations decommissioning trust funds. Further discussions of Generations liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. The ability to grow Generations business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. Generations business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, Generation secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. Generation actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Management currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in Generation and Exelon, investor confidence in regional wholesale power markets, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. Generations credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. Generation has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Also, from time to time, Generation enters into energy commodity and other 116 Table of Contents contracts that require the maintenance of investment grade ratings. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would cause Generation to incur higher financing costs and, in some instances, might allow certain energy commodity counterparties to close out and terminate their contracts. Also, the failure to maintain investment grade ratings would restrict Generations access to the wholesale energy markets. Market performance affects Generations decommissioning trust funds and Exelons benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy Generations future obligations under pension and postretirement benefit plans and to decommission its nuclear generation plants. Generation has significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase funding requirements for these obligations. Other Generations financial performance will be affected by its ability to achieve the targeted cash savings under Exelons new Exelon Way business model. Generation has begun to implement Exelons new Exelon Way business model, which is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. Exelon has incurred expenses, including employee severance costs, associated with reaching these annual cash savings levels and is considering whether there are additional expenses to be recorded in future periods. Exelons targeted annual cash savings do not reflect any expenses that may be incurred in future periods. Exelons inability to reach these annual cash savings levels in the targeted timeframes could adversely affect its future financial performance. Regulations imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 affect Generations business operations. Generation is subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under PUHCA. That regulation affects Generations ability to: diversify, by generally restricting investments to traditional electric and gas utility businesses and related businesses; issue securities, by requiring the prior approval of the SEC; engage in transactions among affiliates without the SECs prior approval and, then, only at cost, since the PUHCA regulates business between affiliates in a utility holding company system; and make dividend payments in specified situations. Generations financial performance is affected by increasing costs associated with additional security measures and obtaining adequate liability insurance. Security. Generation does not fully know the impact that future terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism may have on the industry in general and on Generation in particular. Generation has initiated security measures to safeguard its employees and critical operations from threats of terrorism and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of its energy production and delivery systems. Generation fully expects to meet or exceed all NRC mandated measures on or before the dates specified by requirements promulgated in 2003. These requirements will necessitate additional security expenditures in 2004. Additionally, Generation is in full compliance with all pre 2003 NRC security measures. On a continuing basis, 117 Table of Contents Generation is evaluating enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assessing long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expense to develop and implement but will provide increased assurances as to Generations ability to continue to operate under difficult times. The electric industry has also developed additional security guidelines as the result of various terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, the FERC issued minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system control. These standards are expected to be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. Generation participated in the development of these guidelines and is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. In addition to nuclear liability insurance, Generation also carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. Generation is self insured for deductibles and to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under Generations property damage and liability insurance, together with the deductible, would negatively affect results of operations. Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2003 was $32 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statements of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Generation may incur substantial cost to fulfill obligations related to environmental matters. Generations business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which Generation conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. These regulations affect how Generation handles air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of its operations. In addition, Generation is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by Generation and of property contaminated by hazardous substances it generates. Generation believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, Generation has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Also, Generation is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2003, Generations reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $10 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. Generation has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that it believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover its environmental liabilities. Generation cannot predict whether it will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by Generation, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. Taxation has a significant impact on Generations results of operations. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Generation is required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and its ongoing operations to estimate its 118 Table of Contents obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that Generation has taken. Generation must also assess its ability to generate capital gains in future periods to realize tax benefits associated with capital losses expected to be generated in future periods. Capital losses may be deducted only to the extent of capital gains realized during the year of the loss or during the three prior or five succeeding years. As of December 31, 2003, Generation has not recorded an allowance against its deferred tax assets associated with impairment losses which will become capital losses when realized for income tax purposes. Generation believes these deferred tax assets will be realized in future periods. The ultimate outcome of such matters could result in additional adjustments to its consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Increases in state income taxes. Due to the revenue needs of the states in which Generation operates, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being contemplated. Generation cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, and, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase state income tax expense and could have a negative impact on Generations results of operations and cash flows. Generations results of operations may be affected by its ability to strategically divest certain businesses. Generation is actively pursuing opportunities to dispose of businesses, such as its investments in Sithe and Boston Generating, which are either unprofitable or do not advance Generations strategic goals. Generation may incur significant costs in divesting these businesses. Generation also may be unable to successfully implement its divestiture strategy of certain businesses for a number of reasons, including an inability to locate appropriate buyers or to negotiate acceptable terms for the transactions. The inability to divest certain businesses could negatively affect Generations results of operations. In addition, the amounts that may be realized from a divestiture are subject to fluctuating market conditions that may contribute to pricing and other terms that are materially different than expected and could result in a loss on the sale. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within the markets that Generation operates. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generating facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse affect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generation may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. Generation continues to opportunistically pursue investments that fit its strategic objectives and improve its financial performance. Generations future performance will depend in part upon a variety of factors related to these investments, including its ability to successfully integrate them into existing operations. These new investments, as well as existing investments, may not achieve the financial performance that are anticipated. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 119 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information appearing under the subheading Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 20, 2004. ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with credit, interest rates and commodity price. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, and interest rates. Exelons RMC sets forth risk management policy and objectives for Exelon and its subsidiaries through a corporate policy and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of ComEds derivative activities. Credit Risk Credit risk for ComEd is managed by ComEds credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its respective franchised territories. For the year ended December 31, 2003, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 2% of its retail electric revenues. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Midwest Generation. ComEd is a party to various transactions with Midwest Generation, a subsidiary of Edison Mission Energy (EME) and Edison Mission Midwest Holdings (EMMH). Although earlier public filings in 2003 by EME indicated credit issues, a filing in December 2003 indicated that EMMH had secured financing and re paid its significant current debts. Thus, ComEds credit contingency risk associated with Midwest Generation has decreased during the fourth quarter of 2003. Interest Rate Risk ComEd uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. ComEd also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. These strategies are employed to maintain the lowest cost of capital. As of December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a less than $1 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2004. ComEd has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps in order to maintain its targeted percentage of variable rate debt, associated with debt issuances in the aggregate amount of $485 million fixed rate obligation. At December 31, 2003, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $33 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2003. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2003 is estimated to be $39 million. 120 Table of Contents If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2003 is estimated to be $28 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. In 2003, ComEd entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $440 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The debt issuances that these swaps were hedging were considered probable; therefore, ComEd accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. In connection with the 2003 issuances of First Mortgage Bonds, forward starting interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $1,070 million were settled with net cash proceeds to counterparties of $45 million that has been deferred in regulatory assets and is being amortized over the life of the First Mortgage Bonds as a net increase to interest expense. At December 31, 2003, ComEd has settled all of its interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges. Commodity Price Risk ComEd has entered into a PPA with Generation to meet its retail customer obligations at fixed prices. ComEds principal exposure to commodity price risk is in relation to revenues collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an ARES or the ComEd PPO. Revenues collected from customers electing the PPO include commodity charges at market based prices and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. Because the change in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by the change in CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. CTC revenues are also collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an ARES. CTC rates are reset once a year in the spring, and customers can elect to lock in their CTC rates for a one , two or three year term. Based on the current customers who have elected the one year CTC rates, ComEd has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the net impact of a 10% increase in the average market price of electricity which would result in a $14 million decrease in CTC revenues. A 10% decrease in market prices would result in a $14 million increase in CTC revenues. The result may be significantly affected if additional customers elect to purchase energy from an ARES or if customers elect to purchase their energy from ComEd. PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in counterparty credit and interest rates. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management policy and objectives through a corporate policy and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of Exelons derivative activities. As a result of the PPA with Generation and its purchased gas adjustment clause, PECO does not believe it is subject to material commodity price risk. Credit Risk Credit risk for PECO is managed by its credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised 121 Table of Contents service territories. As a result, PECO has a broad customer base. For the year ended December 31, 2003, PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 7% of its retail electric and gas revenues. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering. However, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Interest Rate Risk In 2003, PECO entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $360 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings, in connection with the issuance of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds. The debt issuances that these swaps were hedging were considered probable; therefore, PECO accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. PECO settled these swaps for net cash proceeds of $1 million, which was recorded in other comprehensive income and is being amortized over the life of the debt issuance. PETT has entered into floating to fixed interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure associated with the floating rate series of transition bonds issued to securitize PECOs stranded cost recovery. These interest rate swaps were designated as cash flow hedges. These interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value exposure of $11 million at December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2003 PETT, a wholly owned subsidiary, was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO. Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity prices. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity security prices. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management policy and objectives through a corporate policy and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers from each of the Exelon business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of Generations derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk Commodity price risk is associated with market price movements resulting from excess or insufficient generation, changes in fuel costs, market liquidity and other factors. Trading activities and non trading marketing activities include the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels, including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. The availability and prices of energy and energy related commodities are subject to fluctuations due to factors such as weather, governmental environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and Federal regulatory policies and other events. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of its obligations to customers, including Energy Deliverys retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge its anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is three years. Generation has an estimated 89% hedge ratio in 122 Table of Contents 2004 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of Generations forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, and energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, the amount hedged declines to meet the commitment to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any opportunistic efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity is approximately a $32 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes an 89% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of its overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Most non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133 discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Those that do not are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 and the ineffective portion of hedge contracts are recognized in earnings on a current basis. The following detailed presentation of the trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers. Generation does not consider its proprietary trading to be a significant activity in its business; however, Generation believes it is important to include these risk management disclosures. 123 Table of Contents The following table describes the drivers of Generations energy trading and marketing business and gross margin included in the income statement for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. Normal operations and hedging activities represent the marketing of electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, sold into the wholesale market. As the information in this table highlights, mark to market activities represent a small portion of the overall gross margin for Generation. Accrual activities, including normal purchases and sales, account for the majority of the gross margin. The mark to market activities reported here are those relating to changes in fair value due to external movement in prices. Further delineation of gross margin by the type of accounting treatment typically afforded each type of activity is also presented (i.e., mark to market vs. accrual accounting treatment). For the year ended December 31, 2003 Normal Operations and Hedging Activities (a) Proprietary Trading Total Mark to market activities: Unrealized mark to market gain/(loss) Origination unrealized gain/(loss) at inception $ $ $ Changes in fair value prior to settlements (b) 207 1 208 Changes in valuation techniques and assumptions Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (223 ) (4 ) (227 ) Total change in unrealized fair value (16 ) (3 ) (19 ) Realized net settlement of transactions subject to mark to market 223 4 227 Total mark to market activities gross margin $ 207 $ 1 $ 208 Accrual activities: Accrual activities revenue $ 5,187 $ $ 5,187 Hedge gains reclassified from OCI 2,358 2,358 Total revenue accrual activities 7,545 7,545 Purchased power and fuel 2,107 2,107 Hedges of purchased power and fuel reclassified from OCI 2,631 2,631 Total purchased power and fuel 4,738 4,738 Total accrual activities gross margin 2,807 2,807 Total gross margin (c) $ 3,014 $ 1 $ 3,015 (a) Normal Operations and Hedging Activities only include derivative contracts Power Team enters into to hedge anticipated exposures related to its owned and contracted generation supply, but excludes its owned and contracted generating assets. (b) Includes hedge ineffectiveness, recorded in earnings of $1 million. (c) Total Gross Margin represents revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense for Generation. 124 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2002 Normal Operations and Hedging Activities (a) Proprietary Trading Total Mark to market activities: Unrealized mark to market gain/(loss) Origination unrealized gain/(loss) at inception $ $ $ Changes in fair value prior to settlements 26 (29 ) (3 ) Changes in valuation techniques and assumptions Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (20 ) 20 Total change in unrealized fair value 6 (9 ) (3 ) Realized net settlement of transactions subject to mark to market 20 (20 ) Total mark to market activities gross margin $ 26 $ (29 ) $ (3 ) Accrual activities: Accrual activities revenue $ 6,785 $ $ 6,785 Hedge gains reclassified from OCI 76 76 Total revenue accrual activities 6,861 6,861 Purchased power and fuel 4,230 4,230 Hedges of purchased power and fuel reclassified from OCI 23 23 Total purchased power and fuel 4,253 4,253 Total accrual activities gross margin 2,608 2,608 Total gross margin (b) $ 2,634 $ (29 ) $ 2,605 (a) Normal Operations and Hedging Activities only include derivative contracts Power Team enters into to hedge anticipated exposures related to its owned and contracted generation supply, but excludes its owned and contracted generating assets. (b) Total Gross Margin represents revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense for Generation. 125 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset (liability) balance sheet position from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2003. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table will incorporate the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as shown in the previous table, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Total mark to market energy contract net assets at January 1, 2002 $ 78 $ 14 $ 92 Total change in fair value during 2002 of contracts recorded in earnings 26 (29 ) (3 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (20 ) 20 Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI (53 ) (53 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (210 ) (210 ) Purchase/sale of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market 11 11 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2002 (168 ) 5 (163 ) Total change in fair value during 2003 of contracts recorded in earnings 206 206 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (223 ) (4 ) (227 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 273 273 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (305 ) (305 ) Purchase/sale of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2003 $ (217 ) $ 1 $ (216 ) The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2003: Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Current assets $ 319 $ 3 $ 322 Noncurrent assets 99 1 100 Total mark to market energy contract assets 418 4 422 Current liabilities (502 ) (3 ) (505 ) Noncurrent liabilities (133 ) (133 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (635 ) (3 ) (638 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (217 ) $ 1 $ (216 ) 126 Table of Contents The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2002: Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Current assets $ 186 $ 6 $ 192 Noncurrent assets 46 46 Total mark to market energy contract assets 232 6 238 Current liabilities (276 ) (276 ) Noncurrent liabilities (124 ) (1 ) (125 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (400 ) (1 ) (401 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask midpoint prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2003 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 127 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net liabilities, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within Total FairValue 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 and Beyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (1): Actively quoted prices $ 32 $ $ $ $ $ $ 32 Prices provided by other external sources (219 ) (23 ) (8 ) (250 ) Total $ (187 ) $ (23 ) $ (8 ) $ $ $ $ (218 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (2): Actively quoted prices $ 23 $ $ $ $ $ $ 23 Prices provided by other external sources (26 ) 9 5 (12 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 7 (5 ) (9 ) (3 ) (10 ) Total $ 4 $ 4 $ (4 ) $ (3 ) $ $ $ 1 Proprietary Trading, other derivative contracts (3): Actively quoted prices $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1 Prices provided by other external sources (1 ) 1 Prices based on model or other valuation methods Total $ $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ 1 Average tenor of proprietary trading portfolio (4) 1 year (1) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (2) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. (3) Mark to market gains and losses on trading contracts are recorded in earnings. (4) Following the recommendations of the Committee of Chief Risk Officers, the average tenor of the proprietary trading portfolio measures the average time to collect value for that portfolio. Generation measures the tenor by separating positive and negative mark to market values in its proprietary trading portfolio, estimating the mid point in years for each and then reporting the highest of the two mid points calculated. In the event that this methodology resulted in significantly different absolute values of the positive and negative cash flow streams, Generation would use the mid point of the portfolio with the largest cash flow stream as the tenor. 128 Table of Contents The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2003. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow HedgeOther Comprehensive Income Activity, Net of Income Tax Power TeamNormal Operations andHedging Activities Interest Rate andOther Hedges Total CashFlow Hedges Accumulated OCI, January 1, 2002 $ 47 $ (2 ) $ 45 Changes in fair value (128 ) (3 ) (131 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income (33 ) (33 ) Accumulated OCI, December 31, 2002 (114 ) (5 ) (119 ) Changes in fair value (186 ) (8 ) (194 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net loss 167 167 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2003 $ (133 ) $ (13 ) $ (146 ) Generation uses a Value at Risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk associated with financial derivative instruments entered into for proprietary trading purposes. The measured VaR represents an estimate of the potential change in value of Generations proprietary trading portfolio. The VaR estimate includes a number of assumptions about current market prices, estimates of volatility and correlations between market factors. These estimates, however, are not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may differ because actual market rate fluctuations may differ from forecasted fluctuations and because the portfolio may change over the holding period. Generation estimates VaR using a model based on the Monte Carlo simulation of commodity prices that captures the change in value of forward purchases and sales as well as option values. Parameters and values are back tested daily against daily changes in mark to market value for proprietary trading activity. VaR assumes that normal market conditions prevail and that there are no changes in positions. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. This means that Generation may state that there is a one in 20 chance that, if prices move against its portfolio positions, its pre tax loss in liquidating its portfolio in a one day holding period would exceed the calculated VaR. To account for unusual events and loss of liquidity, Generation uses stress tests and scenario analysis. 129 Table of Contents For financial reporting purposes only, Generation calculates several other VaR estimates. The higher the confidence interval, the less likely the chance that the VaR estimate would be exceeded. A longer holding period considers the effect of liquidity in being able to actually liquidate the portfolio. A two tailed test considers potential upside in the portfolio in addition to the potential downside in the portfolio considered in the one tailed test. The following table provides the VaR for all proprietary trading positions of Generation as of December 31, 2003. Proprietary Trading VaR 95% Confidence level, one day holding period, one tailed Period end $ Average for the period (0.1 ) High (0.2 ) Low 95% Confidence level, ten day holding period, two tailed Period end $ (0.1 ) Average for the period (0.5 ) High (0.9 ) Low (0.1 ) 99% Confidence level, one day holding period, two tailed Period end $ Average for the period (0.2 ) High (0.3 ) Low Credit Risk Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 130 Table of Contents The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Credit exposure, in the below table, is defined as net accounts receivable as well as any net in the money forward mark to market exposure. Exposures are shown net, if such agreements with counterparties are in place. It further delineates that exposure by the credit rating of the counterparties and provides guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the table below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through Independent System Operators (ISOs) which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2003 Total Exposure Before CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 116 $ $ 116 1 $ 20 Non investment grade 22 7 15 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 152 $ 7 $ 145 1 $ 20 Rating as of December 31, 2002 TotalExposure Before CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 156 $ $ 156 2 $ 71 Non investment grade 17 11 6 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 27 4 23 4 16 Internally rated non investment grade 4 2 2 Total $ 204 $ 17 $ 187 6 $ 87 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2003 Less than 2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 101 $ 15 $ $ 116 Non investment grade 22 22 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 137 $ 15 $ $ 152 Dynegy. Generation is a counterparty to Dynegy in various energy transactions. In early July 2002, the credit ratings of Dynegy were downgraded to below investment grade by two credit rating agencies. Generation has credit risk associated with Dynegy through Generations equity investment in Sithe. Sithe is a 60% owner of the Independence generating station, a 1,028 MW gas fired facility that has an energy only long term tolling agreement with Dynegy, with a related financial swap arrangement. Sithe has entered into a contract to purchase the remaining 40% interest of the Sithe Independence Power Project (Independence) generating station. As of 131 Table of Contents December 31, 2003, Sithe had recognized an asset on its balance sheet related to the fair market value of the financial swap agreement with Dynegy that is marked to market under the terms of SFAS No. 133. If Dynegy were unable to fulfill the terms of this agreement, Sithe would be required to impair this financial swap asset. As a 50% owner of Sithe, Generations estimated impairment would result in an after tax reduction of equity earnings of approximately $5 million. In addition to the impairment of the financial swap asset, if Dynegy were unable to fulfill its obligations under the financial swap agreement and the tolling agreement, Sithe would likely incur a further impairment associated with the Independence plant. Depending upon the timing of Dynegys failure to fulfill its obligations and the outcome of any restructuring initiatives, Exelon could realize an after tax charge of up to $30 million, net of a FIN No. 45 quarantee recorded in connection with Generations sale of 50% of Sithe to Reservoir. In the event of a sale of Exelons investment in Sithe to a third party, proceeds from the sale could be negatively affected by up to $74 million, which would represent an after tax loss of up to $43 million. Additionally, the future economic value of AmerGens purchased power arrangement with Illinois Power Company, a subsidiary of Dynegy, could be affected by events related to Dynegys financial condition. On February 3, 2004, Dynegy announced an agreement to sell its subsidiary Illinois Power Company to a third party, which, upon closing of the transaction, would reduce Generations credit risk associated with Dynegy. Midwest Generation. Generation is party to various transactions with Midwest Generation, a subsidiary of EME and EMMH. Although earlier public filings in 2003 by EME indicated credit issues, a filing in December 2003 indicated that EMMH had secured financing and re paid its significant current debts. Thus, Generations credit contingency risk associated with Midwest Generation decreased during the fourth quarter of 2003. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generations counterparties and Generation to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets, which are administered by ISOs: PJM, New England ISO, New York ISO, California ISO, Midwest ISO, Inc., Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and Texas, which is administered by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Generation uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Generation also uses interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market 132 Table of Contents conditions. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $1 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2004. Under the terms of the Boston Generating Facility, Boston Generating is required to effectively fix the interest rate on 50% of borrowings under the facility through its maturity in 2007. As of December 31, 2003, Boston Generating had entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively fixed the interest rate on $861 million of notional principal, or 83% of borrowings outstanding under the Boston Generating credit facility at December 31, 2003. The fair market value exposure of these swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, was $77 million. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2003 is estimated to be $89 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2003 is estimated to be $65 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. In January 2004, the counterparties terminated the interest rate swaps with Boston Generating. The total net value of these swaps as of the respective termination dates was $82 million, which is a net payable to the counterparties. In 2003, Generation entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $500 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The debt issuances that these swaps are hedging were considered probable; therefore, Generation accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. In connection with Generations December 2003 issuance of Senior Notes, Generation settled swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $500 million for net cash proceeds of $1 million, which was recorded in other comprehensive income and is being amortized over the life of the debt issuance. Equity Price Risk Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning its nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2003, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $303 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits section of ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 133 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 20, 2004. ComEd, PECO and Generation The Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncement sections presented below indicate the registrant or registrants to which each policy, estimate or accounting standard is applicable. We or Our as utilized in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncements sections is defined as the registrant or registrants identified in each subheading. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the following areas require significant management judgment regarding the application of an accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions to account for matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods: accounting for derivative instruments, regulatory assets and liabilities, nuclear decommissioning, depreciable lives of property, plant and equipment, asset impairments including goodwill, severance accounting, defined benefit pension and other postretirement welfare benefits, taxation, unbilled energy revenues and environmental costs. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (ComEd, PECO and Generation) We generally account for derivative financial instruments on our balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception or unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. How such instruments are classified affects how they are reported in our financial statements. If the normal purchases and normal sales exception applies, then gains and losses are recognized when the underlying physical transaction affects earnings. If the derivative qualifies as a cash flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income in shareholders equity. If neither applies, then changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized in our earnings. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon our assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery, which is based on internal models that forecast customer demand and electricity supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. Significant changes in these assumptions could result in these contracts not qualifying for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires us to determine that the contract is in accordance with our Risk Management Policy, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the 45 Table of Contents effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. We reassess these cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. At the point in time that the contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and the fair value of the derivative is recorded through earnings. As a part of our accounting for derivatives, we make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the changes in the fair value we expect in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. We use quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, we use internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific energy market the energy is being purchased in using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. We use the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. To determine the fair value of our outstanding interest rate swap agreements we use external broker quotes or calculate the fair value internally using the Bloomberg swap valuation tool. This tool uses the most recent market inputs and is a widely accepted valuation methodology. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities (ComEd and PECO) We account for our regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71), which requires us to reflect the effects of rate regulation in our financial statements. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to our utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2003, we have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If we conclude in a future period that a separable portion of our business no longer meets the criteria, we are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of our business, which would include the elimination of any regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to our financial statements as a one time extraordinary item and through impacts on continuing operations. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for ComEd and PECO for further information regarding regulatory issues. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. As of December 31, 2003, ComEd had recorded $1.9 billion of net regulatory liabilities, and PECO had recorded $5.3 billion of net regulatory assets within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for ComEd and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for PECO for further information regarding their significant regulatory assets and liabilities. For each regulatory jurisdiction where we conduct business, we continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. The electric businesses of both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Because our current rates include the recovery of existing regulatory assets and liabilities and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow us to earn a 46 Table of Contents reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in the states where we do business but is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could impact ComEd or PECOs ability to pay dividends under PUHCA and state law. Nuclear Decommissioning (ComEd, PECO and Generation) We account for our obligation to decommission our nuclear generating plants under SFAS No. 143 which requires that we make significant estimates of decommissioning costs to be incurred in future periods. We adopted SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003, and ComEd and Generation recorded income of $5 million and $108 million (net of income taxes), respectively, as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. The adoption of SFAS No. 143 had no impact on PECOs net income. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 10 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Upon the adoption of SFAS No. 143, we were required to estimate the fair value of our obligation for the future decommissioning of our nuclear generating plants. To estimate the fair value of the decommissioning obligation, we used a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. Key assumptions used in the determination of fair value included the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. We used decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of costs and the timing of retirement activities validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Annual Cost Escalation Studies. Annual cost escalation studies were used to determine escalation factors based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Our probabilistic cash flow models included the assignment of probabilities to various cost levels and various timing scenarios. The probability of various timing scenarios incorporated the factors of current license lives and life extensions and the timing of Department of Energy (DOE) acceptance for disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Discount Rates. The estimated probability weighted cash flows using these various scenarios were discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses. Changes in the assumptions underlying the items discussed above could have materially affected the decommissioning obligation recorded upon the adoption of SFAS No. 143 and future costs related to decommissioning recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Under SFAS No. 143, the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on an ongoing basis as the model input factors change. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (ComEd, PECO and Generation) We have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, depreciation estimates are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Effective July 1, 2002, ComEd decreased its depreciation rates based on a depreciation study, resulting in an annualized reduction in depreciation expense of $96 million. Effective April 1, 2001, Generation extended the estimated service lives of certain non AmerGen generating 47 Table of Contents stations primarily based on service life extensions applied for with regulatory agencies, resulting in an annualized reduction in depreciation expense of $132 million. We anticipate extending the depreciable lives of the AmerGen stations beginning in January, 2004 concurrent with our initial full month of 100% ownership. Additional changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation charged to the financial statements. Depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $308 million, $130 million, and $186 million for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. Asset Impairments Long Lived Assets and Investments (ComEd, PECO and Generation). We evaluate the carrying value of our long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows. A variation in an assumption could result in a different conclusion regarding the realizability of the asset. The potential impact of recognizing an impairment of the assets reported within the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as on net income, could be and has been material to our consolidated financial statements. In 2003, Generation recorded an impairment charge of $945 million (before income taxes) related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Generation, due to its decision to transition out of its ownership of Boston Generating. See Note 2 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In determining the amount of the impairment charge, Generation compared the carrying value of Boston Generatings long lived assets to their estimated fair value. The fair value was determined using estimated future discounted cash flows from those assets, which incorporated assumptions relative to the period of time that Generation will continue to own and operate Boston Generating. The time required to fully transition out of ownership of Boston Generating is uncertain and subject to change. Generation utilized a discount rate based upon valuations of the business developed at the purchase date. A change in the assumptions, including estimated cash flows and the discount rate, could have had a significant impact on the amount of the impairment charge recorded. In 2003, Generation recorded impairment charges totaling $255 million (before income taxes) associated with a decline in the fair value of Generations investment in Sithe. In reaching that decision, Generation considered various factors, including negotiations to sell its investment in Sithe, which indicated an other than temporary decline in fair value. In 2003, ComEd and PECO did not identify any factors through their review processes that indicated potential material impairment of property plant and equipment or other long lived assets. Goodwill (ComEd). ComEd had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2003. ComEd performs an assessment for impairment of its goodwill at least annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. We performed our annual assessment of potential ComEd goodwill impairment for 2003 as of November 1, 2003, and determined that goodwill was not impaired. In our assessment, to estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit, we used a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The determination of the fair value is dependent on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, market power prices, post 2006 rate regulatory structures, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors. Changes in these variables or in how they interrelate could result in a future impairment of goodwill at ComEd, which 48 Table of Contents could be material. For example, in the 2003 assessment, if estimated discounted cash flows had decreased by 5%, ComEd would have recorded a goodwill impairment of approximately $500 million. Furthermore, based on certain anticipated reductions to cash flows subsequent to ComEds regulatory transition period (primarily CTCs), we believe there is a reasonable possibility that goodwill will be impaired at ComEd in 2004 or future years, and such impairment may be significant. The actual timing and amounts of goodwill impairments in future years, if any, will depend on the variables discussed above. A goodwill impairment charge at ComEd may not affect Exelons results of operations as the goodwill impairment test for Exelon would consider cash flows of the entire Energy Delivery business segment, including both ComEd and PECO, and not just of ComEd. Severance Accounting (ComEd, PECO and Generation) As part of the implementation of The Exelon Way, we identified approximately 1,500 positions for elimination by the end of 2004, including 729, 166, and 470 positions at ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. We provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with us and compensation level. We recorded charges in 2003 related to severance benefits that were considered probable and could be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in calculating the severance charge was the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. We based our estimates on our current plans and our ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate the businesses. We are considering whether there are additional positions to be eliminated in 2005 and 2006. We may incur further severance costs associated with The Exelon Way if additional positions are identified for elimination. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to substantially all ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC employees and certain Enterprises employees. See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement for further information regarding the accounting for our defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation, and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, we utilize assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increase and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating 2003 pension cost was 9.00% compared to 9.50% for 2002 and 2001. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating 2003 other postretirement benefit costs was 8.40% compared to 8.80% for 2002 and 2001. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index was used as the basis in selecting the discount rate for determining the plan obligations, using 6.25% at December 31, 2003 compared to 6.75% at December 31, 2002 and 7.35% at December 31, 2001. The reduction in discount rate is due to the decline in Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index in 2003 and 2002. 49 Table of Contents The following tables illustrate the aggregate effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above: Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected BenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2003 Impact on Pension Liability atDecember 31, 2003 Impact on 2004 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 548 $ 481 $ 37 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 34 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other PostretirementBenefit Obligation at December 31, 2003 Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability at December 31, 2003 Impact on 2004PostretirementBenefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 178 $ $ 20 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 5 The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during our annual review process and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension amounts and funding requirements could also change. ComEd, PECO and Generation incurred approximately $131 million, $57 million and $112 million, respectively, of pension and postretirement benefit costs in 2003, inclusive of curtailment costs associated with The Exelon Way of $48 million, $10 million, and $18 million, respectively. Although 2004 pension and postretirement benefit costs will depend on market conditions, Exelons estimate is that its pension and postretirement benefit costs, in the aggregate, will not change significantly in 2004 as compared to 2003. Taxation (ComEd, PECO and Generation) ComEd, PECO and Generation are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and our ongoing operations to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that we have taken. Generation must also assess its ability to generate capital gains in future periods to realize tax benefits associated with capital losses expected to be generated in future periods. Capital losses may be deducted only to the extent of capital gains realized during the year of the loss or during the three prior or five succeeding years. As of December 31, 2003, Generation has not recorded an allowance against its deferred tax assets associated with impairment losses which will become capital losses when realized for income tax purposes. Generation believes these deferred tax assets will be realized in future periods. While we believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2003 reflect the most likely probable expected outcome of these tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, and SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in additional adjustments to our consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Unbilled Energy Revenues (ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to the sale of energy by ComEd and PECO are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month since the date of the last meter reading are 50 Table of Contents estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2003 include unbilled energy revenues of $225 million and $143 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total revenues would remain unchanged. Revenues related to Generations sale of energy are generally recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of the energy sales is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month and corresponding unbilled revenue are recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer demand, fixed quantity sales, generation volume and applicable market or fixed rates. Generations customer accounts receivable as of December 31, 2003 include unbilled energy revenues of $366 million. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Environmental Costs (ComEd, PECO and Generation) As of December 31, 2003, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $69 million, $50 million and $10 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which we will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where timing and costs of expenditures can be reliably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts represent $64 million and $41 million of the accrued liabilities above for ComEd and PECO, respectively. Where timing and amounts cannot be reliably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $5 million, $9 million, and $10 million of the accrued liabilities total for ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology, regulations or the requirements of local governmental authorities. 51 Table of Contents ComEd Executive Summary 2003 has been a year of operating accomplishments. ComEd has focused on living up to its reliability and safety commitments while pursuing greater productivity, quality and innovation. Here are just a few of the 2003 highlights: Financial Results. ComEd experienced an overall decline in net income of 11% in 2003. This decline was primarily due to lower operating revenues as a result of unfavorable weather and customers purchasing energy from an ARES or PPO and higher operating and maintenance expense including the costs associated with implementing The Exelon Way. ComEds 2003 results were favorably affected by lower depreciation and amortization expense, lower purchased power expense and lower interest expense. The Exelon Way. ComEd implemented The Exelon Way, an aggressive, long term operational plan defining how ComEd will conduct business in years to come. The Exelon Way is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. ComEd recorded severance and severance related after tax charges during 2003 associated with the implementation of The Exelon Way and is considering whether it will incur additional severance related costs in future periods. Investment Strategy. ComEd continued to invest in its infrastructure spending over $700 million in 2003 and expects to invest over $600 million in 2004. Financing Activities. ComEd issued debt and equity securities to refinance approximately $1.7 billion and repaid approximately $260 million of outstanding debt, approximately $340 million of transitional trust notes and $52 million of commercial paper in 2003, resulting in annual interest savings of $65 million. ComEd met all of its capital resource commitments with internally generated cash and expects to do so in the foreseeable future. Operational Achievements. ComEds business focused on the core fundamentals of providing reliable delivery service. Following several years of continued reliability improvement, ComEds performance dipped slightly in 2003 due to a series of severe storms across Northern Illinois two of which were the worst since 1998. Outlook for 2004 and Beyond. In the short term, ComEds financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including weather conditions and successful implementation of The Exelon Way. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, operating revenues at ComEd generally will be favorably affected. In addition, ComEd is required annually to assess its goodwill to determine if it is impaired. Based on certain anticipated reductions to cash flows subsequent to the transition period (primarily competitive transition charges), ComEd believes there is a reasonable possibility that goodwill may be impaired in 2004 or future periods, and such impairment may be significant. Longer term, restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, with continuing debate at the FERC on regional transmission organization (RTO) and standard market platform issues and in many states on the post transition format. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (like California), some states are adjusting current transition plans (like New Jersey and Ohio) and the state of Illinois (by 2007) is considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. ComEd will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations and controlling costs. As ComEd nears the end of the restructuring transition period and related rate freeze in Illinois, ComEd will also continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured 52 Table of Contents electricity markets. ComEd will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements ComEd has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. ComEd will also work to ensure that its rates adequately compensate its suppliers, which could include Generation, for the costs associated with procuring full load following capacity energy supplies given ComEds Provider of Last Resort (POLR) obligations. As in the past, by working together with all interested parties, ComEd believes it can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers. However, if ComEd is unsuccessful, its results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected after the transition period. While the U.S. economic recovery appears underway, ComEds current plans are based on moderate kilowatthour sales growth (1% to 2%). Successful implementation of The Exelon Way is needed to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. ComEds stable base of over three million customers will provide a solid platform with which to meet these challenges. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 Significant Operating Trends ComEd 2003 2002 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ (310 ) (5.1 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 2,501 2,585 (84 ) (3.2 )% Operating and maintenance 1,093 964 129 13.4 % Depreciation and amortization 386 522 (136 ) (26.1 )% Taxes other than income 267 287 (20 ) (7.0 )% Total operating expense 4,247 4,358 (111 ) (2.5 )% OPERATING INCOME 1,567 1,766 (199 ) (11.3 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (423 ) (484 ) 61 (12.6 )% Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (26 ) (30 ) 4 (13.3 )% Other, net 49 44 5 11.4 % Total other income and deductions (400 ) (470 ) 70 (14.9 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,167 1,296 (129 ) (10.0 )% INCOME TAXES 465 506 (41 ) (8.1 )% INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 702 790 (88 ) (11.1 )% CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE, (net of income taxes) 5 5 n.m. NET INCOME $ 707 $ 790 $ (83 ) (10.5 )% n.m. not meaningful Net Income Net income was affected by lower operating revenues primarily due to unfavorable weather and customers purchasing energy from an ARES or PPO and higher operating and maintenance expense, partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense, lower purchased power expense and lower interest expense. 53 Table of Contents Operating Revenues ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) (1) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Bundled deliveries (2) Residential 26,206 27,474 (1,268 ) (4.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 21,541 22,365 (824 ) (3.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 5,921 7,885 (1,964 ) (24.9 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 5,125 6,480 (1,355 ) (20.9 )% 58,793 64,204 (5,411 ) (8.4 )% Unbundled deliveries (3) ARES Small commercial & industrial 6,006 5,219 787 15.1 % Large commercial & industrial 9,909 7,095 2,814 39.7 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,402 912 490 53.7 % 17,317 13,226 4,091 30.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 3,318 3,152 166 5.3 % Large commercial & industrial 4,348 5,131 (783 ) (15.3 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 1,925 1,347 578 42.9 % 9,591 9,630 (39 ) (0.4 )% Total unbundled deliveries 26,908 22,856 4,052 17.7 % Total retail deliveries 85,701 87,060 (1,359 ) (1.6 )% (1) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWhs. (2) Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (3) Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 54 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Bundled revenues (1) Residential $ 2,272 $ 2,381 $ (109 ) (4.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,667 1,736 (69 ) (4.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 304 410 (106 ) (25.9 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 316 377 (61 ) (16.2 )% 4,559 4,904 (345 ) (7.0 )% Unbundled Revenues (2) ARES Small commercial & industrial 139 138 1 0.7 % Large commercial & industrial 175 154 21 13.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 33 28 5 17.9 % 347 320 27 8.4 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 225 204 21 10.3 % Large commercial & industrial 240 278 (38 ) (13.7 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 103 71 32 45.1 % 568 553 15 2.7 % Total unbundled revenues 915 873 42 4.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,474 5,777 (303 ) (5.2 )% Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (3) 340 347 (7 ) (2.0 )% Total electric revenue $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ (310 ) (5.1 )% (1) Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2) Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC charge. (3) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues in 2003, as compared to 2002, were attributable to the following: Variance Weather $ (232 ) Customer choice (155 ) Rate changes (33 ) Volume 105 Other effects 12 Retail revenue $ (303 ) Weather. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. The weather impact for the year ended December 31, 2003 was unfavorable compared to the same period in 2002 as a result of cooler summer weather in 2003. Cooling degree days decreased 36% in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the same period in 2002 and were partially offset by a 5% increase in heating degree days in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the same period in 2002. 55 Table of Contents Customer Choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd. However, as of December 31, 2003, no ARES has sought approval from the ICC, and no electric utilities have chosen, to enter the ComEd residential market for the supply of electricity. The decrease in revenues reflects increased non residential customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the energy provided by alternative electric generation suppliers was 17,317 GWhs, or 20.2% of total retail deliveries, as compared to 13,226 GWhs, or 15.2%, for the year ended December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the number of retail customers that had elected to purchase energy from an ARES or the ComEd PPO was approximately 20,300 and 22,700, respectively, representing less than 1% of total customers in each year. Deliveries to such customers increased from 22,856 GWhs for the year ended December 31, 2002 to 26,908 GWhs for the year ended December 31, 2003, or from 26% to 31% of total annual retail deliveries. Rate Changes. The decrease in revenues attributable to rate changes reflects lower wholesale market prices in the first six months of 2003, which were partially offset by higher wholesale market prices in the last six months of 2003, decreasing revenue received under ComEds PPO by $31 million. Starting in the June 2003 billing cycle, the increased wholesale market price of electricity, net of increased mitigation factors, as a result of the Agreement described in Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, decreased the collection of CTCs as compared to the respective period in 2002. However, for the two year period, CTC revenues were consistent. Volume. Revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of weather, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily large and small commercial and industrial. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the year ended December 31, 2002 decreased $7 million primarily due to a 2002 reimbursement from Generation of $12 million. Purchased Power Purchased power expense decreased in 2003 primarily due to a $135 million decrease as a result of customers choosing to purchase energy from an ARES, a $115 million decrease due to unfavorable weather and a $20 million decrease due to additional energy billed in 2002 under the PPA with Generation, partially offset by an increase of $74 million due to pricing changes related to ComEds PPA with Generation, an increase of $62 million under the PPA related to decommissioning collections associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 143 that were not included in purchased power in 2002 and an increase of $59 million due to higher volume. The $62 million increase in purchased power expense related to SFAS No. 143 had no impact on net income as it was offset by lower regulatory asset amortization expense (see Depreciation and Amortization below). Operating and Maintenance Operating and maintenance (O&M) expense increased in 2003 reflecting $137 million due to The Exelon Way severance and related postretirement health and welfare benefits accruals and pension and postretirement curtailment costs, a net charge of $41 million in 2003 as the result of the Agreement as more fully described in Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, $14 million of additional storm related costs and $7 million increase in employee fringe benefits partially offset by $78 million decrease in payroll expenses due to fewer employees and $6 million lower net manufactured gas plant (MGP) investigation and remediation reserve charges. 56 Table of Contents Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased in 2003 as follows: 2003 2002 Variance % Change Depreciation expense $ 308 $ 334 $ (26 ) (7.8 )% Recoverable transition costs amortization 44 102 (58 ) (56.9 )% Other amortization expense 34 86 (52 ) (60.5 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 386 $ 522 $ (136 ) (26.1 )% The decrease in depreciation expense is primarily due to lower depreciation rates effective July 1, 2002, partially offset by higher property, plant and equipment balances. The lower rates followed completion of a depreciation study and reflect ComEds significant construction program in recent years, changes in and development of new technologies, and changes in estimated plant service lives since the last depreciation study. The reduction in depreciation expense was $48 million ($29 million, net of income taxes) in 2003 compared to 2002. Recoverable transition costs amortization decreased in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the same period in 2002. The decrease is a result of additional amortization in 2002. ComEd expects to fully recover its recoverable transition costs regulatory asset balance of $131 million by 2006. Consistent with the provision of the Illinois legislation, regulatory assets may be recovered at amounts that provide ComEd an earned return on common equity within the Illinois legislation earnings threshold. The decrease in other amortization primarily relates to the reclassification of a regulatory asset for nuclear decommissioning as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 143 in 2003 (see Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). This decrease had no impact on net income as it was offset by increased purchased power from Generation (see Purchased Power above). Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased in 2003 primarily as a result of a $25 million credit in 2003 for use tax payments for periods prior to the Merger and a $5 million refund in 2003 of Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes, partially offset by $8 million in Illinois Public Utility Fund taxes in 2003 that were not charged in 2002 and a $5 million real estate tax refund in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Interest charges decreased in 2003 due to the impact of lower interest rates as a result of refinancing existing debt at lower interest rates for 2003 as compared to 2002 and the pay down of $340 million in ComEd Transitional Trust Notes. Other, Net Other, net increased in 2003 as compared to 2002. In 2002, ComEd recorded a $12 million reserve accrual for a potential plant disallowance from an audit performed in conjunction with ComEds delivery services rate case. This $12 million was reversed in March 2003 as a result of the Agreement as more fully described in Note 2 to ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These items were partially offset by a $9 million reduction in intercompany interest income from Unicom Investments Inc., reflecting a lower principal balance, and a $10 million decrease in various other income and deduction items. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.8% in 2003 as compared to 39.0% in 2002. 57 Table of Contents Due to revenue needs of the states in which ComEd operates, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being contemplated. If these changes are enacted, they could increase ComEds state income tax expense. At this time, however, ComEd cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, and, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. As a result, ComEd cannot currently estimate the effect of these potential changes in tax laws or regulation. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle On January 1, 2003, ComEd adopted SFAS No. 143, resulting in income of $5 million, net of tax. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of SFAS No. 143. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends ComEd 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 2,585 2,670 (85 ) (3.2 )% Operating and maintenance 964 981 (17 ) (1.7 )% Depreciation and amortization 522 665 (143 ) (21.5 )% Taxes other than income 287 296 (9 ) (3.0 )% Total operating expense 4,358 4,612 (254 ) (5.5 )% OPERATING INCOME 1,766 1,594 172 10.8 % OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (484 ) (565 ) 81 (14.3 )% Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (30 ) (30 ) Other, net 44 114 (70 ) (61.4 )% Total other income and deductions (470 ) (481 ) 11 (2.3 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 1,296 1,113 183 16.4 % INCOME TAXES 506 506 NET INCOME $ 790 $ 607 $ 183 30.1 % Net Income Net income was primarily affected by the discontinuation of goodwill amortization, lower depreciation rates effective August 1, 2002, lower interest expense and a lower effective income tax rate partially offset by the effects of a 5% residential rate reduction effective October 1, 2001, customers electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO and lower intercompany interest income. 58 Table of Contents Operating Revenues ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled deliveries (1) Residential 27,474 25,282 2,192 8.7 % Small commercial & industrial 22,365 23,435 (1,070 ) (4.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 7,885 10,305 (2,420 ) (23.5 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 6,480 7,879 (1,399 ) (17.8 )% 64,204 66,901 (2,697 ) (4.0 )% Unbundled Deliveries (2) ARES Small commercial & industrial 5,219 2,865 2,354 82.2 % Large commercial & industrial 7,095 5,458 1,637 30.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 912 365 547 149.9 % 13,226 8,688 4,538 52.2 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 3,152 3,279 (127 ) (3.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 5,131 5,750 (619 ) (10.8 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 1,347 987 360 36.5 % 9,630 10,016 (386 ) (3.9 )% Total unbundled deliveries 22,856 18,704 4,152 22.2 % Total Retail Deliveries 87,060 85,605 1,455 1.7 % (1) Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2) Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an ARES or the PPO. 59 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled Revenues (1) Residential $ 2,381 $ 2,308 $ 73 3.2 % Small commercial & industrial 1,736 1,821 (85 ) (4.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 410 523 (113 ) (21.6 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 377 430 (53 ) (12.3 )% 4,904 5,082 (178 ) (3.5 )% Unbundled Revenues (2) ARES Small commercial & industrial 138 48 90 187.5 % Large commercial & industrial 154 74 80 108.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 28 5 23 n.m. 320 127 193 152.0 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 204 220 (16 ) (7.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 278 343 (65 ) (19.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 71 59 12 20.3 % 553 622 (69 ) (11.1 )% Total unbundled revenues 873 749 124 16.6 % Total electric retail revenues 5,777 5,831 (54 ) (0.9 )% Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (3) 347 375 (28 ) (7.5 )% Total electric revenue $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ (82 ) (1.3 )% (1) Bundled revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (2) Revenue from customers choosing an ARES includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. Transmission charges received from ARES are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. Revenues from customers choosing the PPO includes an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC charge. (3) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. n.m. not meaningful The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer choice $ (131 ) Rate changes (99 ) Weather 88 Volume 91 Other effects (3 ) Retail revenue $ (54 ) Customer Choice. The decrease in revenues reflects customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an ARES or the PPO. As of December 31, 2002, approximately 22,700 retail customers had elected to purchase energy from an ARES or the ComEd PPO, an increase from 18,700 customers at December 31, 2001. Deliveries to such customers increased from 18,704 GWhs in 2001 to 22,856 GWhs in 2002, a 22% increase from the previous year. 60 Table of Contents Rate Changes. The decrease attributable to rate changes reflects a 5% residential rate reduction, effective October 1, 2001, required by the Illinois restructuring legislation. Weather. The weather impact for 2002 was favorable compared to 2001 as a result of warmer summer weather and slightly colder winter weather in 2002 compared to 2001. Cooling degree days increased 29% and heating degree days increased 3% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of weather, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily residential. The reduction in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due primarily to a $38 million decrease in off system sales due to the expiration of wholesale contracts that were offered by ComEd from June 2000 to May 2001 to support the open access program in Illinois, and a $15 million reversal of reserve for revenue refunds in 2001 related to certain of ComEds municipal customers as a result of a favorable FERC ruling, partially offset by a reimbursement from Generation of $12 million for third party energy reconciliations and $13 million of other miscellaneous revenue. Purchased Power The decrease in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a $145 million decrease as a result of customers choosing to purchase energy from an ARES and a $34 million decrease due to the expiration of the wholesale contracts offered by ComEd to support the open access program in Illinois partially offset by a $41 million increase associated with increased retail demand due to favorable weather conditions, a $16 million increase due to the effects of increased weathernormalized volumes for residential and small commercial and industrial customers, an $18 million increase due to an increase in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost per MWh of electricity and $20 million in additional expense as a result of third party energy reconciliations. Operating and Maintenance The decrease in O&M expense is comprised of $32 million of lower payroll costs due to employee reductions, $16 million in cost reductions from Exelons Cost Management Initiative and $24 million miscellaneous other net positive impacts, partially offset by $25 million in additional employee benefit costs, a $16 million net increase in environmental and remediation expense and a $14 million increase in injuries and damages expense. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased in 2002 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Depreciation expense $ 334 $ 353 $ (19 ) (5.4 )% Recoverable transition costs amortization 102 108 (6 ) (5.6 )% Other amortization expense 86 204 (118 ) (57.8 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 522 $ 665 $ (143 ) (21.5 )% The decrease in depreciation expense is due to a $48 million decrease related to lower depreciation rates partially offset by the effect of higher in service property, plant and equipment balances. Recoverable transition costs amortization expense is determined using the expected period of the rate freeze and the expected returns in the periods under the rate freeze. The reduction in amortization expense in 2002 is due to the extension of the rate freeze in the second quarter of 2002. ComEd expects to fully recover these assets by the end of 2006. 61 Table of Contents The decrease in other amortization expense is primarily attributable to the discontinuation of amortization of goodwill as required by SFAS No. 142. During 2001, $126 million of goodwill was amortized. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased in 2002. The primary positive impact was the result of real estate tax refunds in the amount of $5 million. Interest Charges The decrease in interest charges was primarily attributable to the impact of lower interest rates for 2002 as compared to 2001, the early retirement of $196 million of First Mortgage Bonds in November of 2001, the retirement of $340 million in transitional trust notes during 2002, and $10 million of intercompany interest expense in 2001 relating to a payable in Generation, which was repaid during 2001. Other Income and Deductions The decrease in other income and deductions, excluding interest charges, was primarily attributable to $8 million in intercompany interest income relating to the $400 million receivable from PECO which was repaid during the second quarter of 2001, a $31 million reduction in intercompany interest income from Unicom Investment Inc., reflecting lower interest rates, $9 million in intercompany interest income from Generation in 2001 on the processing of certain invoice payments on behalf of Generation, a $12 million reserve for a potential plant disallowance resulting from an audit performed in conjunction with ComEds delivery services rate case, and an $10 million decrease in various other income and deductions items. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.0% in 2002, compared to 45.5% in 2001. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the discontinuation of goodwill amortization as of January 1, 2002, which was not deductible for income tax purposes, and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where ComEd no longer has access to external financing sources at reasonable terms, ComEd has access to a revolving credit facility that ComEd currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. As part of the implementation of The Exelon Way, ComEd identified 729 positions, including professional, managerial and union employees, for elimination by the end of 2004 and recorded a charge for salary continuance severance of $61 million before income taxes during 2003, which ComEd anticipates that the majority will be paid in 2004 and 2005. ComEd is considering whether there are additional positions to be eliminated in 2005 and 2006. ComEd may incur further severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way if additional positions are identified to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. 62 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities ComEds cash flow from operating activities primarily results from sales of electricity to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices. ComEds future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve operating cost reductions, and the impact of the economy, weather and customer choice on its revenues. Cash flows from operations have been and are expected to continue to provide a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements. Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in ComEds rate regulatory environment, although any effects are not expected to hinder ComEds ability to fund its business requirements. See Business Outlook and Challenges in Managing our Business. Cash flows provided by operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $948 million and $1,664 million, respectively. Changes in ComEds cash flows from operations are generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as further adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations, ComEds operating cash flows in 2003 were affected by the following items: Payments to Generation in 2003 for amounts owed under the PPA. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, ComEd had accrued payments due to Generation under the PPA of $171 million and $339 million, respectively. Discretionary contributions to Exelons defined benefit pension plans of $178 million in 2003 compared to $82 million in 2002. ComEd participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Act of 1974; however, Exelon expects to make a discretionary pension plan contribution up to approximately $419 million in 2004, of which, $216 million is expected to be funded by ComEd. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $893 million in 2003 compared to $783 million in 2002. The increase in cash flows used in investing activities was primarily attributable to a $405 million investment in the Exelon intercompany money pool partially offset by the receipt of $213 million from Unicom Investments Inc. related to an intercompany note payable and a $68 million decrease in capital expenditures. ComEds investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 were funded primarily through operating activities. ComEd estimates that it will spend approximately $616 million in total capital expenditures for 2004. Approximately one half of the budgeted 2004 expenditures are for continuing efforts to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amount is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. ComEd anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of debt or preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2003 were $37 million as compared to $888 million in 2002. The decrease in cash flows used in financing activities is primarily attributable to increased issuances of debt, including debt to affiliates and preferred securities, of $945 million, a $107 million increase in contributions from parent and a $69 million decrease in dividend payments to Exelon, partially offset by a $142 million change in 63 Table of Contents commercial paper activity, a $74 million increase in debt and preferred securities redemptions and increased interest rate swap settlement of $35 million. ComEd paid a $401 million dividend to Exelon during 2003 compared to a $470 million dividend in 2002. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility. ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. In October 2003, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation replaced their $1.5 billion bank unsecured revolving credit facility with a $750 million 364 day unsecured revolving credit agreement and a $750 million 3 year unsecured revolving credit agreement with a group of banks. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. The 364 day agreement also includes a term out option provision that allows a borrower to extend the maturity of revolving credit borrowings outstanding at the end of the 364 day period for one year. At December 31, 2003, ComEds aggregate sublimit under the credit agreements was $100 million. Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. ComEd had approximately $80 million of unused bank commitments under the credit agreements at December 31, 2003. ComEd did not have any commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2002, ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet reflected $123 million in commercial paper outstanding of which $52 million was classified as long term debt. Interest rates on the advances under the credit agreements are based on either the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) or prime plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum adder would be 175 basis points. For 2003, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.47%. Certain of the credit agreements to which ComEd is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. ComEds threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreements cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, ComEd was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2003, ComEds capital structure consisted of 34% long term debt, 16% long term debt to affiliates, and 50% common equity. At December 31, 2003, ComEds capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $250 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes but is excluded here to reflect amounts expected to be received by ComEd from Exelon to pay future taxes), consisted of 34% long term debt, 15% long term debt to affiliates, and 51% common equity. Long term debt to affiliates includes obligations to ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III and the ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, which are no longer consolidated within the financial statements due to the adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 46 R Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN No. 46 R) as of December 31, 2003. Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that could be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary, Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc. (ComEd of Indiana), PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon Corporate may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. ComEds maximum amount of investment at any time during 2003 was $483 million. At December 31, 2003, ComEds contribution outstanding was $405 million. During 2003, ComEd earned $2 million in interest on its investments in the intercompany money pool. 64 Table of Contents Security Ratings. ComEds access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. In the fourth quarter of 2003, Standard & Poors Ratings Services affirmed ComEds corporate credit ratings but revised its outlook to negative from stable. None of ComEds borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows ComEds securities ratings at December 31, 2003: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings Senior secured debt A3 A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Transition bonds (1) Aaa AAA AAA (1) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Fund Transfer Restrictions. Under applicable federal law, ComEd can only pay dividends from retained or current earnings. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing II and ComEd Financing III (the Financing Trusts) that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities which were issued to the Financing Trusts; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of the Financing Trusts; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. At December 31, 2003, ComEd had retained earnings of $883 million, of which $709 million had been appropriated for future dividend payments. ComEd is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations ComEds contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years Long term debt $ 4,396 $ 236 $ 889 $ 644 $ 2,627 Long term debt to affiliates 2,037 317 680 680 360 Operating leases 116 14 24 23 55 Chicago agreement (1) 54 6 12 12 24 Regulatory commitments 30 10 20 Total contractual obligations $ 6,633 $ 583 $ 1,625 $ 1,359 $ 3,066 (1) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEd Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt, see Note 8 65 Table of Contents operating leases, see Note 15 Midwest Agreement, see Note 15 regulatory commitments, see Note 2 See Note 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of ComEds commercial commitments as of December 31, 2003. IRS Refund Claims ComEd entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and has made refundable prepayments of $11 million for potential fees associated with these agreements. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS, if any. As such, ultimate net cash flows to ComEd related to these agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claim with the IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to ComEds financial position, results of operations and cash flows. ComEds tax benefits for periods prior to the Merger would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill pursuant to a reallocation of the Merger purchase price. ComEd cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. Variable Interest Entities Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were deconsolidated from the financial statements of ComEd in conjunction with the adoption of FIN No. 46 R. Approximately $2 billion of debt issued by ComEd to these financing trusts was recorded as debt to affiliates within the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2003. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business ComEd conducts business in the electric transmission and distribution industry in the United States. That industry is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. ComEds energy delivery business remains highly regulated and is capital intensive. The challenges affecting ComEds businesses are discussed below. Further discussion of ComEds liquidity position and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. ComEds business is comprised of utility transmission and distribution operations, which provides electricity to customers in Illinois. Illinois has adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. As a result of these restructuring initiatives, ComEd is subject to rate freezes through a mandated restructuring transition period ending on December 31, 2006. During this period, ComEds results of operations will depend on its ability to deliver energy in a cost efficient manner and to offset infrastructure investments and inflation with cost savings initiatives. ComEd expects to continue to have long term, full requirements supply contracts with Generation, helping to mitigate the risk of changing energy supply costs during the transition period. 66 Table of Contents ComEd is also managing operations and maintenance costs by implementing The Exelon Way business model, while maintaining a focus on both reliability and safety in operating the business. ComEd cannot currently predict the framework that will be used by the Illinois state regulators to establish rates after the transition period. ComEd also cannot predict the outcome of any new laws that may impact its business. Nevertheless, ComEd expects to retain significant POLR obligations, whereby it is required to provide service to customers in its service area. ComEd therefore must continue to ensure adequate supplies of electricity are available at reasonable costs. While ComEd does not have its own generation capabilities, ComEd believes its ongoing relationship with Generation will serve to lessen the supply and price risks associated with its expected ongoing power procurement responsibilities. More detailed explanations for each of these and other challenges in managing the business are as follows: ComEd must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing its business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. ComEds business is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. ComEd is regulated by the ICC, which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between the utilities and its affiliates. ComEd is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates transmission rates and certain other aspects of its business. The regulations adopted by the state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which ComEd does business, its ability to undertake specified actions, the costs of operations, and the level of rates charged to recover such costs. ComEd must manage its costs due to the rate and equity return limitations imposed on its revenues. Rate freezes and caps in effect at ComEd currently limit the ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. As a result, ComEds future results of operations will depend on the ability to deliver electricity in a cost efficient manner and to realize cost savings under The Exelon Way to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. Rate limitations. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated rate freeze on bundled retail rates that will remain in effect until January 1, 2007. Equity return limitation. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated cap on its return on common equity through the end of 2006. The cap is based on a two year average of the U.S. Treasury long term rates (25 years and above) plus 8.5% and is compared to a two year average return on ComEds common equity. The legislation requires customer refunds equal to one half of any excess earnings above the cap. ComEd is allowed to include regulatory asset amortization in the calculation of earnings. ComEd has not triggered the earnings provision and currently does not expect to trigger the earnings sharing provision in the years 2004 through 2006. ComEds long term purchased power agreements provide a partial hedge to its customers demand. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, ComEd has established full requirements, power supply agreements with Generation which reduce exposure to the volatility of customer demand and market prices through 2006. These agreements fix the price of energy, and under the PPA, prices for energy vary depending upon the time of day and month of delivery. Market prices relative to ComEds regulated rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. Effective management of capital projects is important to ComEds business. ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities and in other internal infrastructure projects. 67 Table of Contents ComEd expects to continue to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. ComEd further expects those capital expenditures will exceed depreciation on its plant assets. ComEds base rate freeze and caps will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any of these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2007. ComEds business may be significantly affected by the end of the Illinois regulatory transition period. Illinois electric utilities are allowed to collect CTCs from customers who choose an alternative supplier of electric generation service or choose ComEds PPO. CTCs were intended to assist electric utilities, such as ComEd, in recovering stranded costs that might not otherwise be recoverable in a fully competitive market. The CTC charge represents the difference between the market value of delivered energy (the sum of generation service at market based prices and the regulated price of energy delivery) and recoveries under historical bundled rates, reduced by a mitigation factor. The CTC charges are updated annually. Over time, to facilitate the transition to a competitive market, the mitigation factor increases, thereby reducing the CTC charge. In 2003 and 2002, ComEd collected approximately $300 million of CTC revenue annually. As a result of increasing mitigation factors, changes in energy prices and the ability of certain customers to establish fixed, multi year CTC rates beginning in 2003, ComEd anticipates that this revenue source will decline to approximately $180 million to $200 million in each of the years 2004 through 2006. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Through 2006, ComEd will continue to have an obligation to offer bundled service to all customers (except certain large customers with demand of three megawatts or more) at frozen price levels, under which a majority of its residential and small commercial customers are expected to continue to receive service. ComEds current bundled service is generally provided under an all inclusive rate that does not separately break out charges for energy generation service and energy delivery service, but charges a single set of prices. After the transition ends in 2006, ComEds bundled rates may be reset through a regulatory approval process, which may include traditional or innovative pricing, including performance based incentives to ComEd. In order to address post transition uncertainty, ComEd is continually working with Illinois state and business community leadership to facilitate the development of a competitive electricity market while providing system reliability. Transparent and liquid markets will help to minimize litigation over electricity prices and provide consumers assurance of equitable pricing. At the same time, ComEd is attempting to establish a regulatory framework for the post 2006 timeframe and ComEd is pursuing measures that will provide greater productivity, quality and innovation in its work practices. Currently, it is difficult to predict the framework for or the outcome of a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates after 2006. ComEds ability to successfully manage the end of the transition period may affect its capital structure. ComEd has approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2003. This goodwill was recognized and recorded in connection with the Merger. Under GAAP, the goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis of ComEds cash flows. If an impairment is determined at ComEd, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed by ComEd. Under Illinois statute, any impairment of goodwill has no impact on the determination of ComEds rate cap through the transition period. Goodwill has not been impaired to date. However, based on certain anticipated reductions to cash flows (primarily CTCs) subsequent to ComEds regulatory transition period, ComEd believes there is a reasonable possibility that goodwill will be impaired at ComEd in 2004 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of goodwill impairments in future years, if any, will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables including, among others, changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, 68 Table of Contents market power prices, post 2006 rate regulatory structures, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. ComEd is and will continue to be involved in regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of ComEds costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, ComEd looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grants some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. ComEd must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Increases in both customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of ComEds maintenance and capital expenditures. ComEd cannot predict what impact these failures, or failures that impact other utilities such as the blackout in the Northeastern United States and Canada on August 14, 2003 (August Blackout), will have on its anticipated capital expenditures. Although ComEd was not directly affected by the August Blackout, ComEd may be indirectly affected going forward. Regulated utilities that are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Following the August Blackout, significant claims have been asserted against various other utilities on behalf of both customers and non customers for damages resulting from the blackout. ComEd cannot predict whether these claims will be upheld or whether they or legislative or regulatory initiatives in response to the August Blackout will change the traditional liability protections of utilities in providing regulated service. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. ComEd has lost and may continue to lose energy customers to other generation suppliers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of ComEd will vary because of customer choice of generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Illinois, all of ComEds retail electric customers may choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative electric generation suppliers. ComEd is generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in their service territories at fixed rates, or in some instances, market derived rates. In addition, customers who take service from an alternative generation supplier may later return to ComEd, provided, however, that under Illinois law ComEds obligation to provide generation may be eliminated over time if the ICC finds that competitive supply options are available to certain classes of customers. ComEd remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation suppliers. The number of customers taking service from alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that ComEd is authorized to charge by the Illinois regulatory commission. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation supplier, ComEds revenues are likely to decline, and ComEd anticipates its revenues and gross margins could vary from period to period. 69 Table of Contents ComEd continues to serve as the POLR for energy for all customers in its service territories. Since ComEd customers can switch, that is, within limits they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to ComEd and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on, planning for ComEd has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. ComEd has no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. ComEd manages its POLR obligation through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation supplies ComEds power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd load for which Generation must prepare. This uncertainty increases Generations costs and may limit Generations sales opportunities. ComEd has received ICC approval to phase out its obligation to provide fixed price energy under bundled rates to approximately 350 of its largest energy customers, which ComEd believes partially mitigates its risk. These are commercial and industrial customers, including heavy industrial plants, large office buildings, government facilities and a variety of other businesses with demands of at least three MWs representing an aggregate of approximately 2,500 MWs of load. These customers accounted for 10% of ComEds 2003 MWh deliveries. Weather affects electricity usage and, consequently, ComEds results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter of its fiscal year. However, extreme summer conditions or storms may stress its transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting its ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on its operations. Economic conditions and activity in ComEds service territories directly affect the demand for electricity. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their average use of energy. Periods of recessionary economic conditions generally adversely affect ComEds results of operations. In the near term, retail sales growth on an annual basis is expected to be 1.2% in the service territory. Long term retail sales growth for electricity is expected to be 1.5% per year for ComEd. ComEds business is affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. The electric utility industry in the United States is in transition. As a result of both legislative initiatives as well as competitive pressures, the industry has been moving from a fully regulated industry, consisting primarily of vertically integrated companies that combine generation, transmission and distribution, to a partially restructured industry, consisting of competitive wholesale generation markets and continued regulation of transmission and distribution. These developments have been somewhat uneven across the states as a result of the reaction to the problems experienced in California in 2000, the August Blackout and the publicized problems of some energy companies. Illinois has adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. A large number of states have not changed their regulatory structures. Regional Transmission Organizations / Standard Market Platform. The FERC has required jurisdictional utilities to provide open access to their transmission systems. It has also sought the voluntary development of regional transmission organizations (RTOs) and the elimination of trade barriers between regions. The FERC also proposed rulemakings to implement protocols to create a standard wholesale market platform for the wholesale markets for energy and capacity. The RTO would become the provider of the transmission service, and the transmission owners would recover their revenue requirements through it. The transmission owners would remain responsible for maintaining and physically operating their transmission facilities. The wholesale market 70 Table of Contents platform proposal would also require RTOs to operate an organized bid based wholesale market for those who wish to sell their generation through the market and to manage congestion on transmission lines preferably by means of a financially based system known as locational marginal pricing. The FERC is likely to finalize its wholesale market platform rule during 2004. ComEd and other Midwestern utilities are seeking to become fully integrated into the PJM RTO in 2004. When ComEd integrates into PJM, ComEd will recover its current transmission revenues through the PJM open access transmission tariff (OATT), instead of ComEds own OATT. The FERCs RTO and standard market platform initiatives have generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. Efforts to develop an RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. ComEd supports both of these FERC initiatives but cannot predict whether they will be successful, what impact they may ultimately have on its transmission rates, revenues and operation of its transmission facilities, or whether they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. To the extent that ComEd has POLR obligations and may at some point no longer have long term supply contracts with Generation or other suppliers for their loads, the ability of ComEd to cost effectively serve its POLR load obligations may depend on successful spot markets in its franchised service territories. Proposed Federal Energy Legislation. One of the principal legislative initiatives of the Bush administration is the adoption of comprehensive federal energy legislation. In 2003, an energy bill was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives but was not voted on by the U.S. Senate. The energy bill, as currently written, would repeal the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA), create incentives for the construction of transmission infrastructure, encourage but not mandate standardized competitive markets and expand the authority of the FERC to include overseeing the reliability of the bulk power system. ComEd cannot predict whether comprehensive energy legislation will be adopted and, if adopted, the final form of that legislation. ComEd would expect that comprehensive energy legislation would, if adopted, significantly affect the electric utility industry and ComEds businesses. Capital Markets and Financing Environment In order to expand ComEds operations and to meet the needs of current and future customers, ComEd invests in its business. The ability to finance ComEds business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of ComEds operations and ComEds current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of ComEds liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. The ability to grow ComEds business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. ComEds business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, ComEd secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. ComEd actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Management currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in ComEd and Exelon, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. 71 Table of Contents ComEds credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. ComEd has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would cause ComEd to incur higher financing costs. Market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy the future obligations under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans, in which ComEd participates. ComEd has significant obligations in these areas and Exelon holds significant assets in these trusts to meet these obligations. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase Exelons funding requirements for these obligations. ComEd may be required to fund a portion of these increased funding requirements. ComEds results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects ComEd through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the rate freezes that ComEd operates under and price pressures due to competition, ComEd may not be able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other ComEds financial performance will be affected by its ability to achieve the targeted cash savings under Exelons new Exelon Way business model. ComEd has begun to implement Exelons new Exelon Way business model, which is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. Exelon has incurred expenses, including employee severance costs, associated with reaching these annual cash savings levels and is considering whether there are additional expenses to be recorded in future periods. Exelons targeted annual cash savings do not reflect any expenses that may be incurred in future periods. Exelons inability to realize these annual cash savings levels in the targeted timeframes could adversely affect future financial performance. ComEd may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. ComEds business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which ComEd conducts its operations and make its capital expenditures. ComEd is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by ComEd and of property contaminated by hazardous substances ComEd generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, ComEd has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, ComEd is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2003, ComEds reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $69 million. ComEd has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but ComEd cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover ComEds environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether ComEd will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by ComEd, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. 72 Table of Contents ComEds financial performance is affected by increasing costs associated with additional security measures and obtaining adequate liability insurance. Security. The electric industry has developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, the FERC issued minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system control. These standards are expected to be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and ComEd is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. ComEd, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. Exelon is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition in ComEds market. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generating facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on ComEds results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 73 Table of Contents PECO Executive Summary 2003 has been a year of operating accomplishments. PECO has focused on living up to its reliability and safety commitments while pursuing greater productivity, quality and innovation. Here are just a few of the 2003 highlights: Financial Results. PECO experienced an overall decline in net income of 2% in 2003. This decline was primarily due to higher fuel and operating and maintenance expenses, including costs associated with implementing The Exelon Way, and depreciation and amortization expense. PECOs 2003 results were favorably affected by higher gas revenue, lower taxes other than income and lower interest expenses. The Exelon Way. PECO implemented The Exelon Way, an aggressive, long term operational plan defining how PECO will conduct business in years to come. The Exelon Way is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. PECO recorded severance and severance related after tax charges during 2003 associated with the implementation of The Exelon Way and is considering whether it will incur additional severance related costs in future periods. Investment Strategy. PECO continued to invest in its infrastructure, spending over $250 million in 2003, and expects to invest $239 million in 2004. Financing Activities. PECO refinanced or repaid $579 million of outstanding debt and equity securities in 2003 and repaid approximately $239 million of transition bonds and $154 million of commercial paper, resulting in annual interest savings of $38 million. PECO met all of its capital resource commitments with internally generated cash and expects to do so in the foreseeable future. Operational Achievements. PECOs business focused on the core fundamentals of providing reliable delivery service. PECO, and Exelons other operating affiliates combined resources to minimize the aftermath of Hurricane Isabel that affected the Philadelphia area and helped to prevent the potentially detrimental cascading effects of the August 14, 2003 blackout in the Northeastern United States and Canada (August Blackout) to its system and to its customers. Following several years of continued reliability improvement, PECOs performance dipped slightly in 2003 due to Hurricane Isabel. Outlook for 2004 and Beyond. In the short term, PECOs financial results will be affected by weather conditions and the successful implementation of The Exelon Way. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, operating revenues at PECO generally will be favorably affected. Longer term, restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, with continuing debate at the FERC on regional transmission organization (RTO) and standard market platform issues and in many states on the post transition format. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (like California), some states are adjusting current transition plans (like New Jersey and Ohio), and the state of Pennsylvania (by 2011) is considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. PECO will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations and controlling costs. As PECO nears the end of the restructuring transition period for which its transmission and distribution rates are capped in Pennsylvania (2006), PECO will also continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local government, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. As in the past, by working together with all interested 74 Table of Contents parties, PECO can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers. However, if PECO is unsuccessful, its results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected. While the U.S. economic recovery appears underway, PECOs current plan is based on moderate sales growth (1% to 2%). Successful implementation of The Exelon Way is needed to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. PECOs stable base of 1.5 million electric and 460, 000 gas customers will provide a solid platform with which to meet these challenges. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2002 Significant Operating Trends PECO 2003 2002 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 4,388 $ 4,333 $ 55 1.3 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 1,677 1,669 8 0.5 % Fuel 419 348 71 20.4 % Operating and maintenance 576 523 53 10.1 % Depreciation and amortization 487 456 31 6.8 % Taxes other than income 173 244 (71 ) (29.1 )% Total operating expense 3,332 3,240 92 2.8 % OPERATING INCOME 1,056 1,093 (37 ) (3.4 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (324 ) (370 ) 46 (12.4 )% Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (8 ) (10 ) 2 (20.0 )% Other, net 2 32 (30 ) (93.8 )% Total other income and deductions (330 ) (348 ) 18 (5.2 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 726 745 (19 ) (2.6 )% INCOME TAXES 253 259 (6 ) (2.3 )% NET INCOME 473 486 (13 ) (2.7 )% Preferred stock dividends 5 8 (3 ) (37.5 )% NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 468 $ 478 $ (10 ) (2.1 )% Net Income The decrease in net income in 2003 was a result of higher fuel, operating and maintenance and depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by higher gas revenue, lower taxes other than income and lower interest expense. 75 Table of Contents Operating Revenue PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in gigawatthours (GWhs)) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Bundled deliveries (1) Residential 11,358 10,365 993 9.6 % Small commercial & industrial 6,624 7,606 (982 ) (12.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 14,739 14,766 (27 ) (0.2 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 897 852 45 5.3 % 33,618 33,589 29 0.1 % Unbundled deliveries (2) Residential 900 1,971 (1,071 ) (54.3 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,455 415 1,040 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 780 557 223 40.0 % 3,135 2,943 192 6.5 % Total retail deliveries 36,753 36,532 221 0.6 % (1) Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2) Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. n.m. not meaningful Electric Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Bundled revenue (1) Residential $ 1,444 $ 1,338 $ 106 7.9 % Small commercial & industrial 753 865 (112 ) (12.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,090 1,086 4 0.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 80 79 1 1.3 % 3,367 3,368 (1 ) n.m. Unbundled revenue (2) Residential 65 145 (80 ) (55.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 75 21 54 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 21 16 5 31.3 % 161 182 (21 ) (11.5 )% Total electric retail revenues 3,528 3,550 (22 ) (0.6 )% Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (3) 215 234 (19 ) (8.1 )% Total electric revenue $ 3,743 $ 3,784 $ (41 ) (1.1 )% (1) Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2) Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. (3) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. 76 Table of Contents The changes in electric retail revenues in 2003, as compared to 2002, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate mix $ (25 ) Customer choice (12 ) Volume 13 Weather 3 Other effects (1 ) Electric retail revenue $ (22 ) Rate Mix. The decrease in revenues from rate mix is due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2003 compared to 2002. Customer Choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from alternative electric generation suppliers. This choice generally does not impact kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the energy provided by alternative electric generation suppliers was 3,135 GWhs or 8.5% as compared to 2,943 GWhs or 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2003, the number of customers served by alternative electric generation suppliers was 312,600 or 20.4% as compared to 277,800 or 18.2% as of December 31, 2002. The decrease in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice primarily relates to small commercial and industrial customers selecting or being assigned to alternative electric generation suppliers. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased PECOs revenue $13 million compared to 2002, primarily related to increases in the residential customer class, reflecting customer growth, and increased usage in the small commercial and industrial customer classes. Weather. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. The weather impact was slightly favorable compared to the prior year reflecting colder winter weather during the beginning of the year, largely offset by cooler summer weather and warmer winter weather during the end of the year. Heating degree days increased 16% in 2003 compared to 2002. Cooling degree days decreased 21% compared to 2002. PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales 61,858 54,782 7,076 12.9 % Transportation 26,404 30,763 (4,359 ) (14.2 )% Total 88,262 85,545 2,717 3.2 % Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 609 $ 490 $ 119 24.3 % Transportation 18 19 (1 ) (5.3 )% Resales and other 18 40 (22 ) (55.0 )% Total $ 645 $ 549 $ 96 17.5 % 77 Table of Contents The changes in gas retail revenue for 2003, as compared to 2002, were attributable to the following: Variance Weather $ 71 Rate changes 51 Volume (3 ) Gas retail revenue $ 119 Weather. The weather impact was favorable in 2003 compared to 2002 reflecting colder winter weather during the beginning of the year, partly offset by warmer weather during the end of the year. Heating degree days in PECOs service territory increased 16% in 2003 compared to 2002. Rate Changes. The favorable variance in rates was attributable to increases in rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003 and December 1, 2003. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf for 2003 was 11% higher than the rate in 2002. PECOs purchased gas cost rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC and are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in rates. Lower gas resale and other revenues are attributable to a decrease in off system sales, exchanges and capacity releases during 2003 compared to 2002. Purchased Power The increase in purchased power expense was attributable to $10 million for higher electric delivery volume and $7 million for higher prices, including higher PJM ancillary charges, partially offset by decreased purchases of $9 million primarily related to additional small commercial and industrial customers selecting or being assigned to alternative electric generation suppliers in 2003. Fuel The increase in fuel expense in 2003 was primarily attributable to a $55 million increase in purchased gas volumes to meet increased customer demand and a $39 million increase due to higher gas costs, partially offset by a $28 million decrease in fuel expense associated with lower resale sales. Operating and Maintenance The increase in O&M expense was primarily attributable to $30 million of severance and severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way, $22 million of higher storm related costs, $16 million of increased employee fringe benefits, $7 million related to additional uncollectible accounts expense, partially offset by $13 million of lower costs associated with the initial implementation of automated meter reading services in 2002, and $15 million of lower payroll expense due to a lower number of employees. During 2002, PECO decreased its reserve for uncollectible accounts by $17 million as a result of a change in estimate. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense in 2003 increased as compared to 2002 as follows: 2003 2002 Variance % Change Competitive transition charge amortization $ 336 $ 308 $ 28 9.1 % Depreciation expense 130 125 5 4.0 % Other amortization expense 21 23 (2 ) (8.7 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 487 $ 456 $ 31 6.8 % 78 Table of Contents The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. The increase in depreciation expense was due to additional plant in service. Taxes Other Than Income The decrease in taxes other than income in 2003 was primarily attributable to a $58 million reversal of real estate tax accruals in 2003, a $16 million decrease in real estate tax expense in 2003, a $12 million reversal of the use tax accrual due to an audit settlement, partially offset by a $14 million reversal of an overaccrual of Pennsylvania sales and use tax in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consisted of interest expense, interest expense to unconsolidated affiliates and distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership (COMPrS). The decrease in 2003 was primarily attributable to lower interest expense on long term debt of $38 million as a result of less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates, and the reversal of accrued interest expense on federal income taxes of $8 million in 2003. Other Income and Deductions The decrease in other income and deductions was primarily attributable to a reversal of interest expense on federal income taxes of $14 million and an $18 million IRS refund, both of which occurred during 2002. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends PECO 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 4,333 $ 3,965 $ 368 9.3 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 1,669 1,352 317 23.4 % Fuel 348 450 (102 ) (22.7 )% Operating and maintenance 523 587 (64 ) (10.9 )% Depreciation and amortization 456 416 40 9.6 % Taxes other than income 244 161 83 51.6 % Total operating expense 3,240 2,966 274 9.2 % OPERATING INCOME 1,093 999 94 9.4 % OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (370 ) (413 ) 43 (10.4 )% Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (10 ) (10 ) Other, net 32 46 (14 ) (30.4 )% Total other income and deductions (348 ) (377 ) 29 (7.7 )% INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 745 622 123 19.8 % INCOME TAXES 259 197 62 31.5 % NET INCOME 486 425 61 14.4 % Preferred stock dividends 8 10 (2 ) (20.0 )% NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 478 $ 415 $ 63 15.2 % 79 Table of Contents Net Income The increase in net income in 2002 was a result of higher sales volume, favorable rate adjustments, lower operating and maintenance expense and lower interest expense on debt partially offset by increased taxes other than income and increased depreciation and amortization expense. Operating Revenue PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled deliveries (1) Residential 10,365 8,073 2,292 28.4 % Small commercial & industrial 7,606 5,998 1,608 26.8 % Large commercial & industrial 14,766 12,960 1,806 13.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 852 765 87 11.4 % 33,589 27,796 5,793 20.8 % Unbundled deliveries (2) Residential 1,971 3,105 (1,134 ) (36.5 )% Small commercial & industrial 415 1,606 (1,191 ) (74.2 )% Large commercial & industrial 557 2,352 (1,795 ) (76.3 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 7 (7 ) (100.0 )% 2,943 7,070 (4,127 ) (58.4 )% Total retail deliveries 36,532 34,866 1,666 4.8 % (1) Bundled service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (2) Unbundled service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. Electric Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Bundled revenue (1) Residential $ 1,338 $ 1,028 $ 310 30.2 % Small commercial & industrial 865 682 183 26.8 % Large commercial & industrial 1,086 929 157 16.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 79 72 7 9.7 % 3,368 2,711 657 24.2 % Unbundled revenue (2) Residential 145 235 (90 ) (38.3 )% Small commercial & industrial 21 81 (60 ) (74.1 )% Large commercial & industrial 16 64 (48 ) (75.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 1 (1 ) (100.0 )% 182 381 (199 ) (52.2 )% Total Electric Retail Revenues 3,550 3,092 458 14.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (3) 234 219 15 6.8 % Total electric revenue $ 3,784 $ 3,311 $ 473 14.3 % (1) Bundled revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC charge. (2) Unbundled revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC charge. (3) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. 80 Table of Contents The changes in electric retail revenues in 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Customer choice $ 226 Volume 133 Weather 63 Rate changes 45 Other effects (9 ) Electric retail revenue $ 458 Customer Choice. As of December 31, 2002, the customer load served by alternative electric generation suppliers was 1,002 MW or 12.8% as compared to 1,003 MW or 13.0% as of December 31, 2001. The percent of PECOs total retail deliveries for which PECO was electric supplier was 92.0% in 2002, compared to 79.8% in 2001. As of December 31, 2002, the number of customers served by alternative electric generation suppliers was 277,805 or 18.2% as compared to December 31, 2001 of 371,500 or 24.4%. The increases in customers and the percentage of load served by PECO primarily resulted from customers selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased PECOs revenue $133 million compared to 2001, primarily related to increased usage in the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Weather. The weather impact was favorable compared to the prior year as a result of warmer summer weather. Cooling degree days increased 15% in 2002 compared to 2001. Heating degree days increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Rate Changes. The increase in revenues attributable to rate changes primarily reflects the expiration of a 6% reduction in PECOs electric rates during the first quarter of 2001 and a $50 million increase as a result of the increase in the gross receipts tax rate effective January 1, 2002. These increases are partially offset by the timing of a $60 million rate reduction in effect for 2001 and 2002. As permitted by the Pennsylvania Competition Act, the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue calculated a 2002 Revenue Neutral Reconciliation (RNR) adjustment to gross receipts tax rate in order to neutralize the impact of electric restructuring on its tax revenues. In January 2002, the PUC approved the RNR adjustment to the gross receipts tax rate collected from customers. Effective January 1, 2002, PECO implemented the change in the gross receipts tax rate. The RNR adjustment increases the gross receipts tax rate, which increased both PECOs annual revenues and tax obligations by approximately $50 million in 2002. In December 2002, the PUC approved the inclusion of the RNR factor in PECOs base rates eliminating the need for an annual filing to obtain approval for recovery. Other Effects. Other items affecting revenue include an $11 million settlement of CTCs by a large customer in the first quarter of 2001. 81 Table of Contents PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Deliveries to customers in mmcf 2002 2001 Variance % Change Retail sales 54,782 54,075 707 1.3 % Transportation 30,763 27,453 3,310 12.1 % Total 85,545 81,528 4,017 4.9 % Revenue 2002 2001 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 490 $ 581 $ (91 ) (15.7 )% Transportation 19 18 1 5.6 % Resales and other 40 55 (15 ) (27.3 )% Total $ 549 $ 654 $ (105 ) (16.1 )% The changes in gas retail revenue for 2002, as compared to 2001, were attributable to the following: Variance Rate changes $ (108 ) Weather 2 Volume 15 Gas retail revenue $ (91 ) Rate Changes. The unfavorable variance in rates was primarily attributable to a decrease in rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective in December 2001. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf for 2002 was 22% lower than the rate in 2001. Weather. The weather impact was favorable, as a result of colder weather in 2002, as compared to 2001. Heating degree days in PECOs service territory increased 1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Volume. Exclusive of weather impacts, higher delivery volume increased revenue by $15 million in 2002 compared to 2001. Total deliveries to customers increased 5% in 2002 compared to 2001, primarily as a result of customer growth and higher transportation volumes. Lower gas resale and other revenues are attributable to a decrease in off system sales, exchanges and capacity releases during 2002 compared to 2001. Purchased Power The increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to $210 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or returning to PECO as their electric generation supplier, higher PJM ancillary charges of $41 million, $38 million from higher delivery volume primarily related to electric sales and $28 million as a result of favorable weather conditions. Fuel The decrease in fuel expense was primarily attributable to a $108 million decrease from lower gas prices. Operating and Maintenance The decrease in O&M expense in 2002 was primarily attributable to a $23 million reduction in the allowance for the uncollectible accounts during 2002, and $6 million related to lower corporate allocations. The 82 Table of Contents decrease is also attributable to $18 million of employee severance costs associated with the Merger, $12 million of incremental costs related to two storms, $7 million attributable to customer choice and $5 million associated with a write off of excess and obsolete inventory, all of which occurred in 2001. These decreases are partially offset by $12 million related to additional costs associated with the deployment of automated meter reading technology during 2002. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense in 2002 increased as compared to 2001 as follows: 2002 2001 Variance % Change Competitive transition charge amortization $ 308 $ 271 $ 37 13.7 % Depreciation expense 125 119 6 5.0 % Other amortization expense 23 26 (3 ) (11.5 )% Total depreciation and amortization $ 456 $ 416 $ 40 9.6 % The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. The increase in depreciation expense was due to additional plant in service. Taxes Other Than Income The increase in taxes other than income in 2002 was primarily attributable to $72 million of additional gross receipts tax related to additional revenues and an increase in the gross receipts tax rate on electric revenue effective January 1, 2002. The increase was also attributable to $15 million related to an additional assessment of real estate taxes in 2002. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $4 million for state sales and use tax in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consisted of interest expense and distributions on COMPrS. The decrease in 2002 was primarily attributable to lower interest expense on long term debt of $35 million as a result of less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates, and $8 million in interest expense on a loan from ComEd in 2001. Other Income and Deductions The decrease in other income and deductions in 2002 was primarily attributable to intercompany interest income of $10 million, a gain on the settlement of an interest rate swap of $6 million and the favorable settlement of a customer contract of $3 million, all of which occurred in 2001. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 34.8% in 2002 as compared to 31.7% in 2001. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to an unfavorable tax adjustments recorded in 2002. 83 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to external financing sources at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, repayments of maturing debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. As part of the implementation of The Exelon Way, PECO identified approximately 166 positions for elimination by the end of 2004 and recorded a charge for salary continuance severance of $16 million before income taxes during 2003, which PECO anticipates that the majority will be paid in 2004 and 2005. PECO is considering whether there are additional positions to be eliminated in 2005 and 2006. PECO may incur further severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way if additional positions are identified to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Cash Flows from Operating Activities PECOs cash flow from operating activities primarily results from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices. PECOs future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve operating cost reductions, and the impact of the economy, weather and customer choice on its revenues. Cash flows from operations have been and are expected to continue to provide a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements for the foreseeable future. See Business Outlook and Challenges in Managing our Business. Cash flows provided by operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $814 million and $760 million, respectively. Changes in PECOs cash flows from operations are generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as further adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operation, PECOs operating cash flows in 2003 were affected by the following items: Purchases of natural gas at higher prices as well as slightly increased volumes during 2003 resulted in an increase in natural gas inventories of $32 million from December 31, 2002 and an increase in deferred natural gas costs of $50 million, resulting in a decrease to operating cash flows of $82 million during 2003. During 2002, changes in deferred natural gas costs of $25 million and a decrease in inventories during the year of $5 million, resulted in a $30 million increase to operating cash flows. Discretionary contributions to Exelons defined benefit pension plans of $18 million in 2003. PECO did not contribute to the pension plans in 2002. PECO participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon expects to make a discretionary pension plan contribution up to approximately $419 million in 2004, of which, $8 million is expected to be funded by PECO. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities in 2003 were $246 million compared to $260 million in 2002. The decrease in cash flows used in investing activities was primarily attributable to a decrease in capital expenditures. PECOs investing activities during 2003 were funded primarily by operating activities. 84 Table of Contents PECOs projected capital expenditures for 2004 are $239 million. Approximately 60% of the budgeted 2004 expenditures are for additions to or upgrades of existing facilities, including reliability improvements. The remainder of the capital expenditures support customer and load growth. PECO anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2003 were $587 million compared to $469 million in 2002. Cash flows used in financing activities are primarily attributable to debt service and payment of dividends to Exelon. The increase in cash flows used in financing activities was primarily attributable to increased debt and preferred securities redemptions of $481 million, partially offset by additional issuances of long term debt of $328 million. PECO paid a $322 million dividend to Exelon during 2003 compared to a $340 million dividend in 2002. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility. PECO meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. In October 2003, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation replaced their $1.5 billion bank unsecured revolving credit facility with a $750 million 364 day unsecured revolving credit agreement and a $750 million 3 year unsecured revolving credit agreement with a group of banks. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. The 364 day agreement also includes a term out option provision that allows a borrower to extend the maturity of revolving credit borrowings outstanding at the end of the 364 day period for one year. At December 31, 2003, PECOs aggregate sublimit under the credit agreements was $150 million. Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. PECO had approximately $148 million of unused bank commitments under the credit agreements at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, commercial paper outstanding was $46 million. Interest rates on the advances under the credit facility are based on either the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) or prime plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum adder would be 175 basis points. For 2003, the average interest rate on notes payable was approximately 1.23%. Certain of the credit agreements to which PECO is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes revenues and interest expenses attributed to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital and distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries. PECOs threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreement cannot be less than 2.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, PECO was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2003, PECOs capital structure consisted of 14% common equity, 1% notes payable, 1% preferred securities, and 84% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. Long term debt included $4.0 billion of long term debt to an unconsolidated affiliate, PECO Energy Transition Trust, which issued transition bonds representing 62% of capitalization. PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.6 billion receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes but is excluded here to reflect amounts expected to be received by PECO from Exelon to pay future taxes), consisted of 31% common equity, 1% notes payable, 1% preferred securities, and 67% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that could be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany 85 Table of Contents money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary, Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon Corporate may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. PECO had no borrowings from the money pool during 2003. During 2003, PECO had various investments in the money pool. The maximum amount of PECOs investment at any time during 2003 was $59 million. At December 31, 2003, PECO had no amounts invested in the intercompany money pool. During 2003, PECO earned less than $1 million in interest from its investments in the intercompany money pool. Security Ratings. PECOs access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. In the fourth quarter of 2003, Standard & Poors Ratings Services affirmed PECOs corporate credit ratings but revised its outlook to negative from stable. None of PECOs borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows PECOs securities ratings at December 31, 2003: Securities Moodys Investors Service Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings Senior secured debt A2 A A Transition bonds (1) Aaa AAA AAA Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 (1) Issued by PECO Energy Transition Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Fund Transfer Restrictions. Under applicable law, PECO is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon and can pay dividends only from retained or current earnings. At December 31, 2003, PECO had retained earnings of $546 million. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations PECOs contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003 representing cash obligations that are considered to be firm commitments are as follows: Payment due within Due after 5 Years (in millions) Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years Long term debt $ 1,361 $ $ 124 $ 452 $ 785 Long term debt to affiliates 4,033 153 949 1,270 1,661 Notes payable 46 46 Operating leases 14 4 6 2 2 Total contractual obligations $ 5,454 $ 203 $ 1,079 $ 1,724 $ 2,448 See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt, including long term debt due to affiliates, see Note 7 notes payable, see Note 6 operating leases, see Note 14 86 Table of Contents See Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of PECOs commercial commitments as of December 31, 2003. Accounts Receivable Agreement. PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2005. PECO entered into this agreement to diversify its funding sources at favorable floating interest rates. At December 31, 2003, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $176 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, and a $49 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which was accounted for as a long term note payable. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO must continue to service these receivables and must maintain the level of the accounts receivable at $225 million. If PECO fails to maintain that level, the cash that would otherwise be received by PECO under this program must be held in escrow until the level is met. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposits. IRS Refund Claims PECO entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and have made refundable prepayments of $5 million for potential fees associated with these agreements. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS, if any. As such, ultimate net cash flows to PECO related to these agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claim with the IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to PECOs financial position, results of operations and cash flows. PECO cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV) in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities (see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN No. 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business PECOs business is comprised of utility transmission and distribution operations, which provides electricity and natural gas to customers in Pennsylvania. The electric industry in the United States is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. PECOs energy delivery business remains highly regulated and is capital intensive. The challenges affecting PECOs businesses are discussed below. Further discussion of PECOs liquidity position and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. Pennsylvania has restructuring legislation, the Pennsylvania Electric Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act), designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. As a result, PECO is subject to rate caps for each of the transmission, distribution and energy components of its electric 87 Table of Contents service rates, through mandated restructuring transition periods as described below. During these periods, PECOs results of operations will depend on its ability to deliver energy in a cost efficient manner and to offset infrastructure investments and inflation with cost savings initiatives. PECO has long term, full requirements supply contracts with Generation, helping to mitigate the risk of changing energy supply costs through December 31, 2010. PECO is also managing operations and maintenance costs by implementing The Exelon Way business model, while maintaining a focus on both reliability and safety in operating the business. PECO cannot currently predict the framework that will be used by the Pennsylvania state regulators to establish rates after the transition periods. PECO also cannot predict the outcome of any new laws that may impact its business. PECO may retain significant POLR obligations which require PECO to provide service to customers in its service area. PECO therefore must continue to ensure adequate supplies of electricity and gas are available at reasonable costs. While PECO does not have its own generation capabilities, PECO believes its ongoing relationship with Generation will serve to lessen the supply and price risks associated with its expected ongoing power procurement responsibilities. More detailed explanations for each of these and other challenges in managing the business are as follows: PECO must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing the business, which affect costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. PECOs business is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. PECO is regulated by the PUC, which regulates the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between the utilities and its affiliates. PECO is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates transmission rates, gas pipelines and certain other aspects of the business. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which PECO does business, its ability to undertake specified actions and the costs of operations and the level of rates that may be charged to recover such costs. PECO must manage its costs due to the rate limitations imposed on its revenues. Electricity rate caps in effect at PECO currently limit the ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. As a result, PECOs future results of operations will depend on the ability to deliver electricity, in a cost efficient manner and to realize cost savings under The Exelon Way to offset increased infrastructure investments and inflation. Rate limitations. PECO is subject to agreed upon rate reductions of $200 million, in aggregate, for the period 2002 through 2005, including $80 million, in aggregate, for the years 2004 and 2005, and caps (subject to limited exceptions for significant increases in Federal or state income taxes or other significant changes in law or regulation that do not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return) on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006, and on its energy rates through December 31, 2010, as a result of settlements previously reached with the PUC. PECOs long term purchased power agreement provides a hedge to its customers demand. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, PECO has established a full requirements, power supply agreement with Generation which reduces PECOs exposure to the volatility of customer demand and market prices through 2010. Under this agreement, PECO remits to Generation the amounts collected from customers for the energy component of rates, net of gross receipts taxes and ancillary charges. Market prices relative to PECOs regulated rates still influence switching behavior among retail customers. Effective management of capital projects is important to PECOs business. PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities and in other internal infrastructure projects. 88 Table of Contents PECO expects to continue to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems in order to provide a high level of service to its customers. PECO further expects those capital expenditures will exceed depreciation on its plant assets. PECOs transmission and distribution rate cap will generally preclude incremental rate recovery on any of these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2007. PECOs business may be significantly affected by the end of the Pennsylvania regulatory transition period. In Pennsylvania, the Competition Act provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customers bills as a mechanism for utilities to recover their allowed stranded costs. CTCs are assessed to and collected from all retail customers who have been assigned stranded cost responsibility and access the utilities transmission and distribution systems. As the CTCs are based on access to the utilitys transmission and distribution system, they will be assessed regardless of whether such customer purchases electricity from the utility or an alternative electric generation supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that the utilitys right to collect CTCs is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs were awarded, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. PECO has been authorized by the PUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. At December 31, 2003, approximately $4.3 billion remain to be recovered. Recovery of transition charges for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. Amortization of PECOs stranded cost recovery, which is a regulatory asset, is included in depreciation and amortization expense. PECOs results will be adversely affected over the remaining period ending December 31, 2010 by the steadily increasing amortization of stranded costs. The following table (amounts in millions) indicates the estimated revenues and amortization expense associated with CTC collection and stranded cost recovery through 2010. Year Estimated CTC Revenue Estimated Stranded Cost Amortization 2004 $ 812 $ 367 2005 808 404 2006 903 550 2007 910 619 2008 917 697 2009 924 783 2010 932 879 By the end of 2010, PECO will have fully recovered all of the stranded costs authorized by the PUC. As a result, PECO expects that both its revenues and expenses will decrease in 2011. The end of the transition period involves uncertainties, including the nature of PECOs POLR obligations and the source and pricing of generation services to be provided by PECO. PECO expects to pursue resolution of these uncertainties during the remaining transition period. PECO is and will continue to be involved in regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of PECOs costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, PECO looks for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grants some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. 89 Table of Contents PECO must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Increases in both customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in those delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures, including prolonged or repeated failures, also could affect customer satisfaction and may increase regulatory oversight and the level of PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. PECO cannot predict what impact these failures, or failures that impact other utilities such as the blackout in the Northeastern United States and Canada on August 14, 2003 (August Blackout), will have on its anticipated capital expenditures. Although PECO was not directly affected by the August Blackout, PECO may be indirectly affected going forward. Regulated utilities that are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Following the August Blackout, significant claims have been asserted against various other utilities on behalf of both customers and non customers for damages resulting from the blackout. PECO cannot predict whether these claims will be upheld or whether they or legislative or regulatory initiatives in response to the August Blackout will change the traditional liability protections of utilities in providing regulated service. PECO has lost and may continue to lose electric energy customers to other generation suppliers, although it continues to provide delivery services and may have an obligation to provide generation service to those customers. The revenues of PECO will vary because of customer choice of electric generation suppliers. As a result of restructuring initiatives in Pennsylvania, all of PECOs retail electric customers may choose to purchase their generation supply from alternative electric generation suppliers. In addition, since MST requirements for customers taking service from alternative generation suppliers agreed to by PECO were not met, PECO has been required to assign both commercial and residential customers to alternative generation suppliers. In addition, customers who take service from an alternative generation supplier may later return to PECO. PECO remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to all customers regardless of their generation supplier. The number of customers taking service from alternative generation suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that PECO is authorized to charge by the PUC. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different generation supplier, PECOs revenues are likely to decline and revenues and gross margins could vary from period to period. PECO continues to serve as POLR for electric energy for all customers in its service territories. Since PECO customers can switch, that is, within limits they can choose an alternative generation supplier and then return to PECO and then go back to an alternative supplier, and so on, planning for PECO has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. PECO has no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. PECO manages its POLR obligation through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation supplies PECOs power requirements. Because of the ability of customers to switch generation suppliers, there is uncertainty regarding the amount of PECO load that Generation must prepare for. This uncertainty increases Generations costs and may limit Generations sales opportunities. Weather affects electricity and gas usage and, consequently, PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to further increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to further increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, PECO typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter of its fiscal year. However, extreme summer conditions or storms may stress its transmission and distribution system, resulting in increased 90 Table of Contents maintenance costs and limiting its ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on its operations. Economic conditions and activity in PECOs service territories directly affect the demand for electricity and gas. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of customers and their average use of energy. Periods of recessionary economic conditions generally adversely affect PECOs results of operations. Sales growth from 2003 to 2004 on an annual basis is expected to be 1.3% in the service territory of PECO. Long term retail sales growth for electricity is expected to be 1.0% per year for PECO. PECOs business is affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. The electric utility industry in the United States is in transition. As a result of both legislative initiatives as well as competitive pressures, the industry has been moving from a fully regulated industry, consisting primarily of vertically integrated companies that combine generation, transmission and distribution, to a partially restructured industry, consisting of competitive wholesale generation markets and continued regulation of transmission and distribution. These developments have been somewhat uneven across the states as a result of the reaction to the problems experienced in California in 2000, the August Blackout and the publicized problems of some energy companies. Pennsylvania has adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. Regional Transmission Organizations / Standard Market Platform. The FERC has required jurisdictional utilities to provide open access to their transmission systems. It has also sought the voluntary development of regional transmission organizations (RTOs) and the elimination of trade barriers between regions. The FERC also proposed rulemakings to implement protocols to create a standard wholesale market platform for the wholesale markets for energy and capacity. PECO is a member of PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM), an approved RTO operating in the Mid Atlantic region. The FERCs RTO and standard market platform initiatives have generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. Efforts to develop an RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. PECO supports both of these FERC initiatives but cannot predict whether they will be successful, what impact they may ultimately have on its transmission rates, revenues and operation of its transmission facilities, or whether they will ultimately lead to the development of large, successful regional wholesale markets. To the extent that PECO has POLR obligations and may at some point no longer have long term supply contracts with Generation for their loads, the ability of PECO to cost effectively serve its POLR load obligations may depend on the continued operation of the PJM spot markets. One of the principal legislative initiatives of the Bush administration is the adoption of comprehensive federal energy legislation. In 2003, an energy bill was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives but was not voted on by the U.S. Senate. The energy bill, as currently written, would repeal the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA), create incentives for the construction of transmission infrastructure, encourage but not mandate standardized competitive markets and expand the authority of the FERC to include overseeing the reliability of the bulk power system. PECO cannot predict whether comprehensive energy legislation will be adopted and, if adopted, the final form of that legislation. PECO would expect that comprehensive energy legislation would, if adopted, significantly affect the electric utility industry and its businesses. Capital Markets and Financing Environment In order to expand PECOs operations and to meet the needs of its current and future customers, PECO invests in its business. PECOs ability to finance its business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the 91 Table of Contents capital intensive nature of its operations and PECOs current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets. Further discussions of PECOs liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. PECOs ability to grow its business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. PECOs business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, PECO secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. PECO actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. PECO currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund its operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the need arises. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in PECO and Exelon and, general economic and capital market conditions. PECOs credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. PECO has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would cause PECO to incur higher financing costs. Market performance affects Exelons benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy the future obligations under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans, in which PECO participates. PECO has significant obligations in these areas and Exelon holds significant assets in these trusts to meet these obligations. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase Exelons funding requirements for these obligations. PECO may be required to fund a portion of these increased funding requirements. PECOs results of operations can be affected by inflation. Inflation affects PECO through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for transmission and distribution plant. As a result of the transmission and distribution rate cap that PECO operates under, PECO is not able to pass the costs of inflation through to customers. Other PECOs financial performance will be affected by its ability to achieve the targeted cash savings under Exelons new Exelon Way business model. PECO has begun to implement Exelons new Exelon Way business model, which is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. Exelon has incurred expenses, including employee severance costs, associated with reaching these annual cash savings levels and is considering whether there are additional expenses to be recorded in future periods. Exelons targeted annual cash savings do 92 Table of Contents not reflect any expenses that may be incurred in future periods. Exelons inability to realize these annual cash savings levels in the targeted timeframes could adversely affect future financial performance. PECO may incur substantial cost to fulfill its obligations related to environmental matters. PECOs business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which PECO conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. PECO is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by PECO and of property contaminated by hazardous substances PECO generated. Management believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, PECO has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations will be one component of such costs. Also, PECO is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2003, PECOs reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $50 million. PECO has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that management believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but PECO cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover PECOs environmental liabilities. Management cannot predict whether PECO will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by PECO, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. PECO currently is recovering through regulated gas rates costs associated with the remediation of MGP sites. PECOs financial performance is affected by increasing costs associated with additional security measures and obtaining adequate liability insurance. Security. The electric and gas industries have developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, the FERC issued minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system control. These standards will be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. The gas industry, through the American Gas Association, developed physical security guidelines that were accepted by the U.S. Department of Transportation. Exelon participated in the development of these guidelines and PECO is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. PECO, through Exelon, carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to the terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorists acts may be limited. PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within PECOs markets. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generating facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on PECOs results of operations or financial condition. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 93 Table of Contents Generation Executive Summary 2003 has been a year of operating accomplishments and painful investment write offs. Generation has focused on living up to its commitments while pursuing greater productivity, quality and innovation. Financial Results. Generation realized a net loss of $133 million in 2003, a decline of $533 million from 2002 primarily due to a charge of $573 million (after tax) related to the impairment of the long lived assets of Boston Generating, LLC (Boston Generating), formerly known as Exelon Boston Generating, LLC. In addition, Generation incurred impairment and transaction related charges of $180 million (after tax) related to its investment in Sithe and severance and severance related charges associated with The Exelon Way. Generations 2003 results were favorably affected by modest improvements in wholesale energy prices, which increased its energy margins. Generation also recorded a one time after tax gain of $108 million upon the adoption of a new accounting standard that has a significant impact on how Generation accounts for its nuclear decommissioning obligation. The Exelon Way. Generation implemented The Exelon Way, an aggressive plan defining how it will conduct business in years to come. The Exelon Way is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. In addition to the severance and severance related charges Generation recorded during 2003, it may incur additional charges associated with The Exelon Way in future periods. Investment Strategy. Generation continued to follow a disciplined approach to investing to maximize the earnings and cash flows from its assets and businesses and to sell those that do not meet its goals. Generations 2003 highlights include: Generation announced its transition out of its ownership of Boston Generating in July 2003. Generation completed a series of transactions in November 2003 that restructured the ownership of Sithe, with Generation continuing to own a 50% interest in Sithe. Generation continues to pursue the divestiture of its investment in Sithe. Generation purchased British Energy plcs 50% interest in AmerGen Energy Company, LLC (AmerGen) in December 2003. AmerGen, which owns the Clinton Power Station, Three Mile Island Nuclear Station Unit 1 and the Oyster Creek Generating Station representing about 2,500 megawatts of capacity, is now a wholly owned subsidiary. Financing Activities. Generation issued $500 million of senior notes in 2003, and refinanced $17 million of outstanding pollution control bonds. Generation met all of its capital resource commitments with internally generated cash and expects to do so in the foreseeable future, absent new acquisitions. Operational Achievements. Generation focused on the core fundamentals of providing efficient generation to its customers. Generations nuclear business combined with other Exelon businesses to minimize the aftermath of Hurricane Isabel and helped to prevent the potentially detrimental cascading effects of the August 14, 2003 blackout in the Northeastern United States and Canada. Also, Generations nuclear fleet achieved a 93.4% capacity factor in 2003 compared to 92.7% in 2002 while reducing the costs of nuclear generation to 1.25 cents per kilowatthour. Outlook for 2004 and Beyond. In the short term, Generations financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including weather conditions, wholesale market prices, successful implementation of The Exelon Way and Generations ability to generate electricity at low costs. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, demand for energy generally will be favorably affected. Operating revenues will also be favorably affected by increases in wholesale market prices. Generations 94 Table of Contents continued transition out of ownership at Boston Generating, and the successful integration of the AmerGen acquisition into its nuclear fleet will continue to enhance its operations and overall investment return. Longer term, restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, whether debating regional transmission organization (RTO) or standard market platform issues at the FERC or the post transition format in many states. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (like California), some states are adjusting current transition plans (like New Jersey and Ohio), and the states of Illinois (by 2007) and Pennsylvania (by 2011) are considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. Generation will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations, controlling costs and providing a fair return to its investors. While U.S. economic recovery appears underway, Generations current plans are based on continued softness in wholesale power markets. Successful implementation of The Exelon Way is needed to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. Despite these challenges, Generations diverse mix of generation (nuclear, coal, purchased power, natural gas, hydroelectric, wind and other renewables) and its position as a low cost producer linked to a stable base of Exelon Energy Delivery customers will provide a solid platform from which it will strive to meet these challenges. 95 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2002 Significant Operating Trends Generation 2003 2002 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 1,277 18.6 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 3,587 3,294 293 8.9 % Fuel 1,533 959 574 59.9 % Operating and maintenance 1,945 1,656 289 17.5 % Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 n.m. Depreciation 199 276 (77 ) (27.9 )% Taxes other than income 120 164 (44 ) (26.8 )% Total operating expense 8,329 6,349 1,980 31.2 % OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) (194 ) 509 (703 ) (138.1 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (88 ) (75 ) (13 ) 17.3 % Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 49 87 (38 ) (43.7 )% Other, net (187 ) 83 (270 ) n.m. Total other income and deductions (226 ) 95 (321 ) n.m. INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (420 ) 604 (1,024 ) (169.5 )% INCOME TAXES (179 ) 217 (396 ) (182.5 )% INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (241 ) 387 (628 ) (162.3 )% CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES, (net of income taxes) 108 13 95 n.m. NET INCOME (LOSS) $ (133 ) $ 400 $ (533 ) (133.3 )% n.m. not meaningful Net Income Net income was adversely affected by the after tax impairment charges of $573 million relating to the long lived assets of Boston Generating and $180 million relating to Generations investment in Sithe Energies. Net income was favorably affected by increased revenue net fuel attributable to higher prices and volumes of wholesale energy, and the impact of the Exelon New England acquisition in 2002, slightly offset by decreased sales to affiliates. 96 Table of Contents Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased in 2003 as compared to 2002. Generations sales in 2003 and 2002 were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company $ 4,036 $ 4,213 $ (177 ) (4.2 )% Market sales 3,861 2,591 1,270 49.0 % Total energy sales revenue 7,897 6,804 1,093 16.1 % Trading portfolio 1 (29 ) 30 (103.4 )% Other revenue 237 83 154 185.5 % Total revenue $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 1,277 18.6 % Sales (in GWhs) (1) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company 117,405 123,975 (6,570 ) (5.3 )% Market sales 107,267 83,565 23,702 28.4 % Total sales 224,672 207,540 17,132 8.3 % (1) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWhs. Trading volumes of 32,584 GWhs and 69,933 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2003, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Generations average revenues per MWh sold for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2003 2002 % Change Average revenue Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company $ 34.38 $ 33.98 1.2 % Market sales 35.99 31.01 16.1 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 35.15 32.78 7.2 % Exelon Delivery and Exelon Energy Company. Sales to affiliates decreased primarily due to lower volume sales to ComEd, offset by slightly higher prices. Revenues from PECO were lower, primarily due to lower prices, offset slightly by higher volumes. Sales to Exelon Energy Company decreased primarily due to the discontinuance of Exelon Energy Company operations in the PJM region. Effective January 1, 2004, Exelon Energy Companys competitive retail sales business became part of Generation. Market Sales. Revenue from market sales increased due primarily to higher market prices and the realization of the effects of the Exelon New England acquisition. Trading Revenues. Trading margin increased, reflecting a $1 million gain for the year ended December 31, 2003 as compared to a $29 million loss in the same period in 2002. The increase is primarily related to an increase in gas prices in April 2002, which negatively affected Generations trading positions. Other Revenue. Revenues also increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, as a result of a $76 million increase in sales of excess fossil fuel. The excess fossil fuel is a result of generating plants in Texas and New England operating at less than projected levels. Also, revenues increased by $62 million due to higher decommissioning revenue received from ComEd in 2003 compared to 2002. 97 Table of Contents Purchased Power and Fuel Generations supply of sales in 2003 and 2002, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2003 2002 % Change Nuclear generation (1) 117,502 115,854 1.4 % Purchases non trading portfolio (2) 82,860 78,710 5.3 % Fossil and hydroelectric generation 24,310 12,976 87.3 % Total supply 224,672 207,540 8.3 % (1) Excluding AmerGen. (2) Including purchased power agreements with AmerGen. ($/MWh) 2003 2002 % Change Average supply cost (1) excluding trading portfolio $ 22.79 $ 20.49 11.2 % (1) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs. Generations supply mix changed as a result of: Increased nuclear generation due to a lower number of refueling outages during 2003 as compared to 2002, Increased fossil generation due to the Exelon New England plants acquired in November 2002, which became operational in the second and third quarters of 2003 and account for an increase of 8,426 GWhs, and Additional purchase power of 3,320 GWhs due to the acquisition of Exelon New England, a new PPA with AmerGen which increased 3,049 GWhs in the second quarter of 2003, as well as 11,989 GWhs of other miscellaneous power purchases which more than offset a 14,208 GWh decrease in purchased power from Midwest Generation. The increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to a 5.3% increase in purchased power volume and an increase of $3.50/MWh in the average market price of purchased power between 2003 and 2002. Fuel expense increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, as summarized below: (in millions) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (1) $ 502 $ 483 $ 19 3.9 % Fossil and hydroelectric generation 1,031 476 555 116.6 % Total supply $ 1,533 $ 959 $ 574 59.9 % (1) Excluding AmerGen. The increase was principally attributable to increased fossil fuel purchases related to generating asset acquisitions in Texas and New England in 2002, as well as increased peaking production due to summer demand and higher average prices. Operating and Maintenance The increase in operating and maintenance (O&M) expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to $60 million of severance and related postretirement health and welfare benefits accruals and pension and postretirement curtailment costs associated with The Exelon Way and $197 million of accretion expense related to the new decommissioning accounting policy as a result of implementing SFAS No. 143. 98 Table of Contents Accretion expense includes $153 million of accretion of the asset retirement obligation and $44 million to adjust the earnings impact of certain of the nuclear decommissioning revenues earned from ComEd and PECO, nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment income related to certain nuclear facilities, income taxes incurred on certain nuclear decommissioning trust fund activities, accretion of the asset retirement obligation and depreciation of the asset retirement cost asset to zero. The increase in O&M was also due to $54 million of additional employee payroll and benefits costs and $78 million of additional expenses due to generating asset acquisitions made in 2002. Also, Generation recorded an impairment charge of $7 million in 2003, of which $5 million is related to the pending retirement of Mystic Station Units 4, 5 and 6. These increases were partially offset by $49 million of lower nuclear refueling outage costs, including $19 million for Generations ownership interest in Salem, which is operated by the co owner, PSE&G, executive severance expense recorded in 2002 of $19 million, an $8 million reduction in workers compensation expense and $31 million related to other non recurring items. 2003 2002 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (1) 93.4 % 92.7 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (1) $ 12.53 $ 13.00 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 43.29 $ 41.85 (1) Including AmerGen and excluding Salem. The higher nuclear capacity factor and decreased production costs are primarily due to 56 fewer planned refueling outage days, resulting in a $36 million decrease in outage costs, including a $6 million decrease related to AmerGen, in 2003 as compared to 2002. The years ended 2003 and 2002 included 30 and 26 unplanned outages, respectively, resulting in a $2 million increase in non refueling outage costs in 2003 as compared to 2002. Depreciation and Amortization The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to a $130 million reduction in decommissioning expense net of ARC depreciation, as these costs are included in operating and maintenance expense after the adoption of SFAS No. 143 and a $12 million decrease due to life extensions of assets acquired in 2002. The decrease was partially offset by $65 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service in 2002, of which $18 million of expense is related to plant acquisitions made after the third quarter of 2002. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased in 2003 compared to 2002 due primarily to a $20 million decrease in property taxes, a $13 million decrease in the Pennsylvania capital stock tax and Texas franchise tax, and a $6 million decrease in payroll taxes. Interest Expense The increase in interest expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 is due to $18 million of higher interest related to the Boston Generating project debt outstanding in 2003 as well as the outstanding Sithe note. The increase was partially offset by a $14 million decrease resulting from interest expense no longer being recorded to offset decommissioning interest income in 2003. This offset is currently included as accretion expense in operating and maintenance expense. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2003 as compared to 2002 was due to a decrease of $21 million in the equity in earnings of Sithe, which was primarily the result of the sale of Sithe New Englands assets to Generation in November 2002. A decrease of $17 million in the equity in earnings of AmerGen also contributed to the overall decrease, which was primarily due to lower PPA revenues at AmerGen and increases in severance costs during 2003. 99 Table of Contents Other, Net The decrease in other, net in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily a result of $255 million of impairment charges related to Generations equity investment in Sithe due to an other than temporary decline in value and a $25 million loss resulting from the subsequent sale of 50% of the assets of Sithe to Reservoir (see Note 3 to Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). These decreases were partially offset by $16 million increase in decommissioning trust fund investment income. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 42.6% for 2003 compared to 35.9% for 2002. This increase was primarily attributable to the impairments recorded in 2003 related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating and Generations investment in Sithe, which resulted in a pre tax loss. Other adjustments that affected income taxes include a decrease in tax exempt interest recorded in 2003 and an increase in nuclear decommissioning investment income for 2003. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2003, Generation adopted SFAS No. 143 resulting in a benefit of $108 million (net of income taxes of $70 million). On January 1, 2002, Generation adopted SFAS No. 142 resulting in a benefit of $13 million (net of income taxes of $9 million). Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2001 Significant Operating Trends Generation 2002 2001 Variance % Change OPERATING REVENUES $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 32 0.5 % OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 3,294 3,106 188 6.1 % Fuel 959 889 70 7.9 % Operating and maintenance 1,656 1,528 128 8.4 % Depreciation 276 282 (6 ) (2.1 )% Taxes other than income 164 149 15 10.1 % Total operating expense 6,349 5,954 395 6.6 % OPERATING INCOME 509 872 (363 ) (41.6 )% OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (75 ) (115 ) 40 (34.8 )% Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 87 90 (3 ) (3.3 )% Other, net 83 (8 ) 91 n.m. Total other income and deductions 95 (33 ) 128 n.m. INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 604 839 (235 ) (28.0 )% INCOME TAXES 217 327 (110 ) (33.6 )% INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 387 512 (125 ) (24.4 )% CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES, (net of income taxes) 13 12 1 8.3 % NET INCOME $ 400 $ 524 $ (124 ) (23.7 )% n.m. not meaningful 100 Table of Contents Net Income Net income in 2002 was adversely affected by a lower margin on wholesale energy sales due to depressed market prices for energy, a reduced supply of low cost nuclear generation, and increased operating and maintenance expense. The decrease was partially offset by increased revenue from the acquisition of two generating plants in April 2002, increased investment income, decreased depreciation expense and decreased interest expense. Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased in 2002 as compared to 2001. For 2002 and 2001, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2002 2001 Variance % Change Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company $ 4,213 $ 4,089 $ 124 3.0 % Market sales 2,591 2,676 (85 ) (3.2 )% Total energy sales revenue 6,804 6,765 39 0.6 % Trading portfolio (29 ) 7 (36 ) n.m. Other revenue 83 54 29 53.7 % Total revenue $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 32 0.5 % n.m. not meaningful Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company 123,975 123,793 0.1 % Market sales 83,565 72,333 15.5 % Total sales 207,540 196,126 5.8 % Trading volume of 69,933 GWhs and 5,754 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, is not included in the table above. Generations average revenue, supply cost, and margin on energy sales for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2002 2001 % Change Average revenue Energy Delivery and Exelon Energy Company $ 33.98 $ 33.05 2.8 % Market sales 31.01 37.00 (16.2 )% Total excluding the trading portfolio 32.78 34.51 (5.0 )% Exelon Delivery and Exelon Energy Company. Sales to affiliates increased by $124 million. The increase was primarily attributable to higher prices under PPAs. Also, Generation had higher volume sales to ComEd, offset by slightly lower volume sales to PECO and Exelon Energy Company. Market Sales. Revenue from market sales decreased primarily due to a $6/MWh decrease in average market prices in 2002 compared to 2001. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in market sales volume. Trading Revenues. Trading revenue decreased, reflecting a $29 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to a $7 million gain in the same period in 2001. The decrease was primarily related to an increase in gas prices in April 2002, which negatively affected Generations trading positions. 101 Table of Contents Other Revenue. Other revenue increased $29 million in 2002 as compared to 2001, primarily as a result of increased gas sales resulting from the Texas generating asset acquisitions in April 2002. Purchased Power and Fuel Generations supply of sales in 2002 and 2001, excluding the trading portfolio, were as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2002 2001 % Change Nuclear generation (1) 115,854 116,839 (0.8 )% Purchases non trading portfolio (2) 78,710 67,942 15.8 % Fossil and hydroelectric generation 12,976 11,345 14.4 % Total supply 207,540 196,126 5.8 % (1) Excluding AmerGen. (2) Including PPAs with AmerGen. The increase in purchased power expense was primarily attributable to increased power supplied to Generation which resulted in a 15.8% increase in purchased power volume. This was partially offset by average purchased power cost decreasing by $4.11/MWh for 2002 as compared to 2001. This decrease in average purchased power cost was principally attributable to lower realized wholesale market prices and reduced transmission costs. The increase in fuel expense in 2002 was primarily attributable to increased fossil fuel purchases related to generating asset acquisitions in Texas and New England, as well as increased peaking production due to summer demand. Operating and Maintenance The increase in O&M expense in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to the additional expense of $80 million arising from an increased number of nuclear plant refueling outages during 2002 compared to 2001. Also, O&M expense increased $21 million due to plants acquired in 2002, as well as additional allocated corporate costs, including executive severance. These additional expenses were partially offset by other operating cost reductions, including $8 million related to fewer employees, a $10 million reduction in Generations severance accrual and other cost reductions from an Exelon cost management initiative. The severance reduction represents a reversal of costs previously charged to operating expense. 2002 2001 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (1) 92.7 % 94.4 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (1) $ 13.00 $ 12.78 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 41.85 $ 45.94 (1) Including AmerGen and excluding Salem. Depreciation and Amortization The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to a $42 million reduction in depreciation expense arising from the extension of the useful lives on certain generating facilities in 2001, partially offset by $32 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service, including the Southeast Chicago Energy Project in July 2002, and two generating plants acquired in April 2002. 102 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased in 2002 as compared to 2001 due primarily to an $8 million increase in property taxes. Interest Expense The decrease in interest expense in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to a $19 million reduction in interest charges on the spent nuclear fuel obligation because of lower rates, and $33 million of lower affiliate interest expense. The decrease was partially offset by a $21 million increase in interest expense due to newly acquired long term debt associated with Exelon New England. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates, net The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to a $5 million decrease in Generations equity earnings in AmerGen, primarily due to an increase in pension, medical, and incentive cost, partially offset by an increase in revenue. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $2 million in Generations equity earnings in Sithe. Other, Net The increase in other, net in 2002 as compared to 2001 was primarily due to a $103 million increase in decommissioning trust fund investment income, partially offset by a $6 million decrease in affiliate interest income, and a $6 million decrease due to losses on the disposal and retirement of Generation assets. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 35.9% for 2002 compared to 39.0% for 2001. This decrease was primarily attributable to an increase in tax exempt interest recorded in 2002 and other tax benefits recorded in 2002. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2001, Generation adopted SFAS No. 133, as amended, resulting in a benefit of $12 million (net of income taxes of $7 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool and or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations working capital deficit is expected to be cured with its anticipated continuance of positive operating cash flows and the eventual elimination of its Boston Generating debt balance upon the transfer of its ownership of Boston Generating. We anticipate that the transfer of Boston Generating will be accomplished on a non cash basis. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to external financing sources at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, investments in new and existing ventures, repayments of maturing debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Any future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. As part of the implementation of The Exelon Way, Generation identified approximately 470 positions for elimination by the end of 2004 and recorded a charge for salary continuance severance of $33 million before income taxes during 2003, which Generation anticipates that the majority will be paid in 2004 and 2005. Generation is considering whether there are additional positions to be eliminated in 2005 and 2006. Generation may incur further severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way if additional positions are identified to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. 103 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including Generations affiliated companies, as well as settlements arising from Generations trading activities. Generations future cash flow from operating activities will depend upon future demand and market prices for energy and the ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Cash flows from operations have been and are expected to continue to provide a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements for the foreseeable future. See Business Outlook and Challenges in Managing our Business. Cash flows provided by operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were $1,453 million and $1,150 million, respectively. Changes in Generations cash flows from operations are generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as further adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business and non cash charges. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operation, Generations operating cash flows in 2003 were affected by the following items: Sales to ComEd decreased in 2003 in line with the lower load requirements of the territory due to the customer choice initiative. Greater mark to market activity in 2002 resulted in higher cash inflows from proprietary trading activities in 2002 compared to 2003. Discretionary contributions to Exelons defined benefit pension plans of $145 million in 2003 compared to $60 million in 2002. Generation participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; however, Exelon expects to make a discretionary pension plan contribution up to approximately $419 million in 2004, of which $170 million is expected to be funded by Generation. Of the $170 million expected to be contributed to the pension plan during 2004, $17 million is estimated to be needed to satisfy IRS minimum funding requirements for the pension plan obligations assumed in the AmerGen acquisition in December 2003. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,301 million in 2003, compared to $1,686 million in 2002. Capital expenditures, including investment in nuclear fuel, were $953 million in 2003, and primarily represent additions to nuclear fuel as well as the construction of three Boston Generating facilities with projected capacity of 2,288 MWs of energy and additions and upgrades to the existing facilities. Capital expenditures were offset by $92 million of liquidating damages received from Raytheon as a result of Raytheon not meeting the expected completion date and certain contractual performance criteria in connection with Raytheons construction of the Boston Generating facilities. On November 25, 2003, Generation, Reservoir, and Sithe completed a series of transactions resulting in Generation and Reservoir each indirectly owning a 50% interest in Sithe. See Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interest Entities below for further information regarding this transaction. In addition, a note receivable was received from EXRES SHC, Inc. for $92 million. In December 2003, Generation purchased the 50% interest in AmerGen held by British Energy plc for $240 million, net of cash acquired of $36 million. The acquisition was funded with cash provided by operations. 104 Table of Contents In February 2002, Generation entered into an agreement to loan AmerGen up to $75 million at an interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 2.25%. As of December 31, 2002, the balance of the loan to AmerGen was $35 million, which was repaid in its entirety during 2003. In April 2002, Generation purchased two natural gas and oil fired generating plants from TXU for $443 million. The purchase was funded with commercial paper, which Exelon issued and Generation repaid with cash flows from operations. In November 2002, Generation purchased Exelon New England, which resulted in a use of cash of $2 million, net of $12 million of cash acquired. The remainder of the purchase price was financed with a $534 million note payable to Sithe, which was subsequently increased to $536 million. At December 31, 2003, Generation had repaid $446 million of the note payable to Sithe, leaving a balance of $90 million, which is payable on the earlier of December 1, 2004, upon reaching certain Sithe liquidity requirements, or upon a change of control. Capital expenditures for 2004 are projected to be $972 million. Generation anticipates that nuclear refueling outages will increase from eight in 2003 to ten in 2004. Generations capital expenditures are expected to be funded by internally generated funds. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities were $52 million in 2003, compared to $370 million cash provided in 2002. The decrease in cash flows used in financing activities was primarily a result of the retirement of debt of $570 million and the repayment of the acquisition note payable to Sithe of $446 million. Additional decreases resulted from the payment of distributions totaling $189 million and lower borrowings from affiliates resulting in $242 million of the change from the prior year. This decrease was partially offset by the issuance of $500 million of unsecured notes in December 2003 and the bridge financing facility of $550 million. Financing activities in 2003 exclude the $17 million non cash distribution to PECO and in 2002 exclude the non cash issuance of a $534 million note (subsequently increased to $536 million) issued to Sithe for the acquisition of the Sithe New England assets and approximately $1.0 billion of Sithe New England long term debt, which is reflected in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility. Generation meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and intercompany borrowings from Exelons intercompany money pool. In October 2003, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation replaced their $1.5 billion bank unsecured revolving credit facility with a $750 million 364 day unsecured revolving credit agreement and a $750 million 3 year unsecured revolving credit agreement with a group of banks. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. The 364 day agreement also includes a term out option provision that allows a borrower to extend the maturity of revolving credit borrowings outstanding at the end of the 364 day period for one year. At December 31, 2003, Generations aggregate sublimit under the credit agreements was $250 million. Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. Generation had approximately $170 million of unused bank commitments under the credit agreements at December 31, 2003. Generation did not have any commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2003. Interest rates on the advances under the credit facility are based on either the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) or prime plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum adder would be 175 basis points. Certain of the credit agreements to which Generation is a party require it to maintain a cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratio excludes certain changes in working capital and interest on Exelon New Englands debt. Generations threshold for the ratio reflected in the credit agreements cannot be less than 3.25 to 1 for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2003, Generation was in compliance with the credit agreement thresholds. 105 Table of Contents Capital Structure. At December 31, 2003, Generations capital structure consisted of 48% members equity, 8% notes payable and 44% long term debt. Long term debt includes $1.2 billion of senior unsecured notes and $1.0 billion Boston Generating project debt, representing 36% of capitalization. Boston Generating Project Debt. Boston Generating has a $1.25 billion credit facility (Boston Generating Facility), which was entered into primarily to finance the development and construction of generating projects known as Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River. Approximately $1.0 billion of debt was outstanding under the Boston Generating Facility at December 31, 2003, all of which was reflected in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as a current liability due to certain events of default described below. The Boston Generating Facility is non recourse to Generation and an event of default under the Boston Generating Facility does not constitute an event of default under any other of Generations debt instruments or the debt instruments of its subsidiaries. The Boston Generating Facility required that all of the projects achieve Project Completion, as defined in the Boston Generating Facility (Project Completion) by July 12, 2003. Project Completion was not achieved by July 12, 2003, resulting in an event of default under the Boston Generating Facility. Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River have begun commercial operation, although they have not yet achieved Project Completion. Generation has commenced the process of an orderly transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating and the Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River generating projects. Generations decision to transition out of the projects was made as a result of its evaluation of the projects and discussions with the lenders under the Boston Generating Facility. We anticipate that this transition will occur in 2004. Generation Revolving Credit Facilities. On September 29, 2003, Generation closed on an $850 million revolving credit facility that replaced a $550 million revolving credit facility that had originally closed on June 13, 2003. Generation used the facility to make the first payment to Sithe relating to the $536 million note that was used to purchase Exelon New England. This note was restructured in June 2003 to provide for a payment of $210 million of the principal on June 16, 2003, payment of $236 million of the principal on the earlier of December 1, 2003 or upon a change of control of Generation, and payment of the remaining principal on the earlier of December 1, 2004, upon reaching certain Sithe liquidity requirements, or upon a change of control of Generation. Generation paid $446 million on the note to Sithe in 2003. Generation terminated the $850 million revolving credit facility on December 22, 2003. Intercompany Money Pool. To provide an additional short term borrowing option that could be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary, Commonwealth Edison of Indiana, Inc., PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon Corporate may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest, or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. During 2003, Generation had various borrowings from the money pool. The maximum amount of borrowings outstanding at any time during 2003 by Generation was $395 million. As of December 31, 2003, Generation owed the money pool $301 million on these loans. For the year ended December 31, 2003, Generation paid $2 million in interest to the money pool. 106 Table of Contents Security Ratings. Generations access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets are dependent on its securities ratings. In the fourth quarter of 2003, Standard & Poors Ratings Services affirmed Generations corporate credit ratings but revised its outlook to negative from stable. None of Generations borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities ratings although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under certain bank credit facilities. The following table shows Generations securities ratings at December 31, 2003: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & Poors Fitch Ratings Senior unsecured debt Baa1 A BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generations counterparties and Generation to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Fund Transfer Restrictions. Under applicable law, Generation can only pay dividends from undistributed or current earnings. Generation is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. At December 31, 2003, Generation had undistributed earnings of $602 million. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations Generations contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003 are as follows: Payment Due within Due After 5 Years (in millions) Total 1 Year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years Long term debt $ 2,728 $ 1,068 $ 23 $ 20 $ 1,617 Short term note to Sithe 90 90 Intercompany money pool 301 301 Short term obligation to Exelon 115 115 Operating leases 564 21 53 52 438 Power purchase obligations 10,475 2,635 1,827 1,410 4,603 Fuel purchase agreements 3,034 476 825 582 1,151 Other purchase commitments 54 19 22 13 Obligation to minority shareholders 54 3 6 6 39 Pension IRS minimum funding requirement 17 17 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 867 867 Total contractual obligations $ 18,299 $ 4,745 $ 2,756 $ 2,083 $ 8,715 107 Table of Contents See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt, see Note 8 short term note to Sithe, see Note 15 intercompany money pool, see Note 15 short term obligation to Exelon, see Note 15 operating leases, see Note 13 power purchase obligations, see Note 13 obligation to minority shareholders, see Note 13 pension IRS minimum funding requirement, see Note 11 spent nuclear fuel obligation, see Note 10 Two affiliates of Exelon New England have long term supply agreements through December 2022 with Distrigas for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreements, prices are indexed to New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed these entities financial obligations to Distrigas under the Distrigas agreements. It is currently anticipated that Exelon New Englands guaranty to Distrigas will continue following the eventual transfer of the ownership interests in Boston Generating. This guaranty is non recourse to Generation. At December 31, 2003, Exelon New England had net assets of approximately $70 million, exclusive of the Boston Generating net assets. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143), Generation was required to re measure its decommissioning liabilities at fair value and recorded an asset retirement obligation of $2.4 billion on January 1, 2003. Increases in the asset retirement obligation are recorded as operating and maintenance expense. At December 31, 2003, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet was $3.0 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired and are currently estimated to begin in 2029 for plants currently in operation. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $4.7 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2003. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generation, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Generations commercial commitments as of December 31, 2003. Variable Interest Entities. Generation is a 50% owner of Sithe and accounts for the investment as an unconsolidated equity investment. Based on managements interpretation of FIN No. 46 R, it is reasonably possible that Generation will consolidate Sithe as of March 31, 2004. At December 31, 2003, Sithe had total assets of $1.5 billion (including the $90 million note from Generation) and total debt of $1.0 billion. The $1.0 billion of debt includes $588 million of subsidiary debt incurred primarily to finance the construction of six new generating facilities, $419 million of subordinated debt, $43 million of current portion of long term debt, but excludes $469 million of non recourse debt associated with Sithes equity investments. For the year ended December 31, 2003, Sithe had revenues of $690 million and incurred a net loss of approximately $72 million. Generation contractually does not own any interest in Sithe International, a subsidiary of Sithe. As such, a portion of Sithes net assets and results of operations would be eliminated from Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income through a minority interest if Sithe is consolidated under FIN No. 46 R as of March 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2003, Generation had a $47 million investment in Sithe. 108 Table of Contents In 2003, Generation recorded impairment charges of $255 million (before income taxes) in other income and deductions within the Consolidated Statements of Income associated with a decline in the fair value of the Sithe investment, which was considered to be other than temporary. Generation considered various factors in the decision to impair this investment, including its negotiations to sell its interest in Sithe and the completion of the transactions described below. The discussions surrounding the sale and the resulting transactions indicated that the fair value of the Sithe investment was below its book value and, as such, an impairment was required. On November 25, 2003, Generation, Reservoir and Sithe completed a series of transactions resulting in Generation and Reservoir each indirectly owning a 50% interest in Sithe. The series of transactions is described below. Immediately prior to these transactions, Sithe was owned 49.9% by Generation, 35.2% by Apollo Energy, LLC (Apollo), and 14.9% by subsidiaries of Marubeni Corporation (Marubeni). Entities controlled by Reservoir purchased certain Sithe entities holding six U.S. generating facilities, each a qualifying facility under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act, in exchange for $37 million ($21 million in cash and a $16 million two year note); and entities controlled by Marubeni purchased all of Sithes entities and facilities outside of North America (other than Sithe Energies Australia (SEA) of which it purchased a 49% interest on November 24, 2003 for separate consideration) for $178 million. Marubeni agreed to acquire the remaining 51% of SEA in 90 days if a buyer is not found, although discussions regarding an extension are ongoing. Following the sales of the above entities, Generation transferred its wholly owned subsidiary that held the Sithe investment to a newly formed holding company. The subsidiary holding the Sithe investment acquired the remaining Sithe interests from Apollo and Marubeni for $612 million using proceeds from a $580 million bridge financing and available cash. Generation sold a 50% interest in the newly formed holding company for $76 million to an entity controlled by Reservoir on November 25, 2003. On November 26, 2003, Sithe distributed $580 million of available cash to its parent, which then utilized the distributed funds to repay the bridge financing. In connection with this transaction, Generation recorded obligations related to $39 million of guarantees in accordance with FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN No. 45). These guarantees were issued to protect Reservoir from credit exposure of certain counter parties through 2015 and other indemnities. In determining the value of the FIN No. 45 guarantees, Generation utilized a probabilistic model to assess the possibilities of future payments under the guarantees. Both Generation and Reservoirs 50% interests in Sithe are subject to put and call options that could result in either party owning 100% of Sithe. While Generations intent is to fully divest Sithe, the timing of the put and call options vary by acquirer and can extend through March 2006. The pricing of the put and call options is dependent on numerous factors, such as the acquirer, date of acquisition and assets owned by Sithe at the time of exercise. Any closing under either the put or call options is conditioned upon obtaining state and federal regulatory approvals. Other Generations cash flow hedges are affected by commodity prices. These hedge contracts primarily represent forward sales of Generations excess capacity that it expects to deliver. The majority of these contracts are for delivery within one year. These contracts have specified credit limits pursuant to standardized contract terms and require that cash collateral be posted when the limits are exceeded. When power prices increase relative to Generations forward sales prices, it can be subject to collateral calls if Generation exceeds its credit limits. However, when power prices return to previous levels or when Generation delivers the power under its forward contracts, the collateral would be returned to Generation with no impact on its results of operations. Generation believes that it has sufficient capability to fund any collateral requirements that could be reasonably expected to occur. 109 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business The U.S. electric generation, transmission and distribution industry is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. Generation operates in a highly competitive environment which is capital intensive. The challenges affecting Generations business are discussed below. Further discussion of Generations liquidity position and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. Generation must effectively manage its power portfolio to meet its contractual commitments and to handle changes in the wholesale power markets. The majority of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under long term PPAs to ComEd and PECO. To the extent the portfolio is not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold in the wholesale market. Generations ability to grow is dependent upon its ability to cost effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, to manage its power portfolio and to effectively handle changes in the wholesale power markets. The scope and scale of Generations nuclear generation resources provide a cost advantage in meeting its contractual commitments and enable it to sell power in the wholesale markets. Generations resources include interests in 11 nuclear generation stations, consisting of 19 units. Generations nuclear fleet, excluding AmerGens three units, generated 117,502 GWhs, or more than half of its total supply, in 2003. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can take advantage of its scale and scope to negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generations nuclear plants benefit from stable fuel costs, minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history. Generations financial performance may be affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. The ownership and operation of nuclear facilities involve risks, including: mechanical or structural problems; inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols; impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human error; costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; and uncertainties regarding both technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear facilities at the end of their useful lives. The material risks known or currently anticipated that could affect Generations ability to sustain its current levels of profitability are: Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low 110 Table of Contents variable costs due to low fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear generating facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors would increase Generations operating costs and could require Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally are at a higher cost than Generation otherwise would have incurred to generate energy from its own nuclear stations. Refueling outages. Outages at nuclear stations to replenish fuel require the station to be turned off. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 26 days in duration. Generation has significantly decreased the length of refueling outages in recent years. However, when refueling outages last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each twenty six day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including AmerGen, will increase to ten in 2004 from nine in 2003. Maintenance expenditures are expected to increase by approximately $20 million in 2004 as compared to 2003 as a result of the increased number of nuclear refueling outages. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of its operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, have resulted in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization and or increased outage costs and could continue to do so. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Life extensions. Generations nuclear facilities are currently operating under 40 year NRC licenses. Generation has applied for 20 year extensions for the licenses that will be expiring in the next ten years, excluding licenses for the AmerGen facilities. Generation anticipates filing a request for a license extension for Oyster Creek and is evaluating the other AmerGen facilities for possible extension. Generation has received a 20 year extension of the license for the Peach Bottom units, but Generation cannot predict whether any of the other pending extensions will be granted. Generation intends to evaluate opportunities, as permitted by the NRC, to apply for life extensions to some or all of the remaining licenses. If the extensions are granted, Generation cannot be sure that it will be willing to operate the facilities for all or any portion of the extended license. If the NRC does not extend the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations, its results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operation or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally, including Generations, has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting 111 Table of Contents liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operation or financial position. Nuclear liability insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The limit as of January 1, 2004 is $10.9 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. The Price Anderson Act expired on August 1, 2002 and was subsequently extended to the end of 2003 by the U.S. Congress. Only facilities applying for NRC licenses subsequent to expiration of the Price Anderson Act are affected. Existing commercial generating facilities, such as those owned and operated by Generation, remain subject to the provisions of the Price Anderson Act and are unaffected by its expiration. Decommissioning. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, other than the AmerGen facilities, the ICC permits ComEd, and the PUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. The ICC permitted ComEd to recover $73 million per year from retail customers for decommissioning for the years 2001 through 2004, and, depending upon the portion of the output of certain generating stations taken by ComEd, up to $73 million annually in 2005 and 2006. Subsequent to 2006, there will be no further recoveries of decommissioning costs from ComEds customers. Effective January 1, 2004, PECO will be permitted to recover $33 million annually for nuclear decommissioning. Generation expects that these collections will continue through the operating license life of each of the former PECO units, with adjustments every five years to reflect changes in cost estimates and decommissioning trust fund performance. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired and are currently estimated to begin in 2029 for plants currently in operation. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $4.7 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2003. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) with scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2003, Generation had a number of units, which, at current market levels, are being funded at a rate less than anticipated with respect to the NRCs Funding Levels. Generation will submit its next biennial report to the NRC at the end of March 2005. At that time, Generation will address potential actions, in accordance with NRC requirements, to assure that Generation will remain adequately funded compared to the NRC Funding Levels. In 2003, the General Accounting Office (GAO) published a study on the NRCs need for more effective analyses to ensure the adequate accumulation of funds to decommission nuclear power plants in the United States. As it has in the past, the GAO concluded that accumulated and future proposed funding was inadequate to achieve NRC Funding Levels at a number of U.S. nuclear plants, including a number of Generations plants. Generation has reviewed the GAOs report and believe that, in reaching its conclusions, the GAO did not consider all aspects of Generations decommissioning strategy, such as fund growth during the decommissioning period. The inclusion of estimated earnings growth on Generations nuclear trust funds during the decommissioning period virtually eliminates any funding shortfalls identified in the GAO report. In spite of any temporary shortfall in NRC Funding Levels, Generation currently believes that the amounts in nuclear decommissioning trust funds and future collections from ratepayers, together with earnings thereon, will provide adequate funding to decommission its nuclear facilities in accordance with regulatory requirements. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant 112 Table of Contents judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, when decommissioning activities are initiated, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to identify other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Generation relies on electric transmission facilities that it does not own or control. If operations at these facilities are disrupted or do not provide Generation with adequate transmission capacity, it may not be able to deliver its wholesale electric power to the purchasers of the power. Generation depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other companies to deliver the power that it sells at wholesale. If transmission at these facilities is disrupted, or transmission capacity is inadequate, Generation may not be able to sell and deliver its wholesale power. While Generation was not significantly affected by the failure in the transmission grid that served a large portion of the Northeastern United States and Canada on August 14, 2003, the North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at a point within the grid can cause a systemic response that results in an extensive power outage. If a regions power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, Generations recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. In addition, if restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. Generation also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. Generation is directly affected by price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. To the extent Generation does not supply power to serve the needs of ComEd and PECO, Generations cash flows will largely be determined by wholesale prices of electricity and its ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. In the event that lower wholesale prices of electricity reduce Generations current or forecasted cash flows, the carrying value of Generations generating units may be determined to be impaired. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money or energy as a result of market transactions will not perform their obligations. For example, energy supplied by third party generators, including Sithe, under long term agreements represents a significant portion of Generations overall capacity. These generators face operational risks, such as those that Generation faces, and their ability to perform depends on their financial condition. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to honor the underlying commitment at then current market prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of 113 Table of Contents which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. These policies include counterparty credit limits and, in some cases, require deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties. These agreements reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. Immature Markets. The wholesale spot markets are new and evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. While the FERC has proposed initiatives to standardize wholesale spot markets, Generation cannot predict whether that effort will be successful, what form any of these markets will eventually take or what roles Generation will play in them. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. The Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolios. This activity, along with the effects of any specialized accounting for trading contracts, may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements to ComEd and PECO. Extreme summer conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse affect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generation incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Excess capacity. Energy prices are also affected by the amount of supply available in a region. In the markets where Generation sells power, there has been a significant increase in the number of new power plants commencing commercial operations which has driven down power prices over the last few years. In fact, an excess supply situation currently exists in many parts of the country which has reduced prices in the wholesale markets and adversely affected Generations profitability. We cannot predict when these regions will return to more normal levels in the supply demand balance. Generations business is also affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations / Standard Market Platform. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources and to take advantage of price opportunities. 114 Table of Contents Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features that may create trading barriers among the markets. The FERC has proposed initiatives, including Order 2000 and the proposed wholesale market platform rule, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers. These initiatives, however, have not yet led to the development of such markets in all areas of the country. PJMs market strongly resembles the FERCs proposal, and both the New England Independent System Operator (NE ISO) and the New York Independent System operator (NYISO) are implementing market reforms. Generation strongly encourages the development of standardized energy markets and supports the FERCs standardization efforts as being essential to wholesale competition in the energy industry and to Generations ability to compete on a national basis and to meet its long term contractual commitments efficiently. Approximately 27% of Generations generating assets, which includes directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. If the PJM market is expanded to the Midwest, 79% of Generations generating assets would be located within that market. The PJM market has been the most successful and liquid regional market. Generations future results of operations may be affected by the successful expansion of that market to the Midwest and the implementation of any market changes mandated by the FERC. Provider of Last Resort. As discussed above, ComEd and PECO each have POLR obligations that they have effectively transferred to Generation through full requirements contracts. Because the choice of electricity generation supplier lies with the customer, planning to meet these obligations has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. It is difficult for Generation to plan the energy demand of ComEd and PECO customers. The uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd and PECO load for which Generation must prepare increases Generations costs. A significant under estimation of ComEds and PECOs electric load requirements could result in Generation not having enough power to cover its supply obligation, in which case Generation would be required to buy power from third parties or in the spot markets at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be as favorable or as manageable as Generations long term supply expenses and thus could increase total costs. Effective management of capital projects is important to Generations business. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation. The inability of Generation to effectively manage its capital projects could adversely affect its results from operations. In 2002, Generation purchased the assets of Sithe New England Holdings, LLC (now known as Exelon New England), a subsidiary of Sithe, and related power marketing operations. Due to the reduction in power prices and delays in construction completion, in July 2003, Generation commenced the process of an orderly transition out of the ownership of the Boston Generating assets. Generation recorded an impairment charge of $945 million before income taxes related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating as a result of its decision to exit these facilities. Charges could result from decisions to exit other investments or projects in the future. These charges could have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. In recent years, IPPs and the generation companies of disaggregated utilities have installed new generating capacity at a pace greater than the growth of electricity demand. These new generating facilities may be more efficient than Generations 115 Table of Contents facilities. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. Power Teams risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its power trading activities. Power Teams power trading (including fuel procurement and power marketing) activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage its exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always be followed or may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. Even when Generations policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be wrong or inaccurate. Factors such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its power trading and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Capital Markets and Financing Environment In order to expand Generations operations and to meet the needs of current and future customers, Generation invests in its business. The ability to finance Generations business and other necessary expenditures is affected by the capital intensive nature of Generations operations and Generations current and future credit ratings. The capital markets also affect Exelons benefit plan assets and Generations decommissioning trust funds. Further discussions of Generations liquidity position can be found in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above. The ability to grow Generations business is affected by the ability to finance capital projects. Generations business requires considerable capital resources. When necessary, Generation secures funds from external sources by issuing commercial paper and, as required, long term debt securities. Generation actively manages its exposure to changes in interest rates through interest rate swap transactions and its balance of fixed and floating rate instruments. Management currently anticipates primarily using internally generated cash flows and short term financing through commercial paper to fund operations as well as long term external financing sources to fund capital requirements as the needs and opportunities arise. The ability to arrange debt financing, to refinance current maturities and early retirements of debt, and the costs of issuing new debt are dependent on: credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings (see credit ratings in the credit issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources above), investor confidence in Generation and Exelon, investor confidence in regional wholesale power markets, general economic and capital market conditions, the success of current projects, and the perceived quality of new projects. Generations credit ratings influence its ability to raise capital. Generation has investment grade ratings and has been successful in raising capital, which has been used to further its business initiatives. Also, from time to time, Generation enters into energy commodity and other 116 Table of Contents contracts that require the maintenance of investment grade ratings. Failure to maintain investment grade ratings would cause Generation to incur higher financing costs and, in some instances, might allow certain energy commodity counterparties to close out and terminate their contracts. Also, the failure to maintain investment grade ratings would restrict Generations access to the wholesale energy markets. Market performance affects Generations decommissioning trust funds and Exelons benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy Generations future obligations under pension and postretirement benefit plans and to decommission its nuclear generation plants. Generation has significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase funding requirements for these obligations. Other Generations financial performance will be affected by its ability to achieve the targeted cash savings under Exelons new Exelon Way business model. Generation has begun to implement Exelons new Exelon Way business model, which is focused on improving operating cash flows while meeting service and financial commitments through improved integration of operations and consolidation of support functions. Exelons targeted annual cash savings range from approximately $300 million in 2004 to approximately $600 million in 2006. Exelon has incurred expenses, including employee severance costs, associated with reaching these annual cash savings levels and is considering whether there are additional expenses to be recorded in future periods. Exelons targeted annual cash savings do not reflect any expenses that may be incurred in future periods. Exelons inability to reach these annual cash savings levels in the targeted timeframes could adversely affect its future financial performance. Regulations imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 affect Generations business operations. Generation is subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under PUHCA. That regulation affects Generations ability to: diversify, by generally restricting investments to traditional electric and gas utility businesses and related businesses; issue securities, by requiring the prior approval of the SEC; engage in transactions among affiliates without the SECs prior approval and, then, only at cost, since the PUHCA regulates business between affiliates in a utility holding company system; and make dividend payments in specified situations. Generations financial performance is affected by increasing costs associated with additional security measures and obtaining adequate liability insurance. Security. Generation does not fully know the impact that future terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism may have on the industry in general and on Generation in particular. Generation has initiated security measures to safeguard its employees and critical operations from threats of terrorism and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of its energy production and delivery systems. Generation fully expects to meet or exceed all NRC mandated measures on or before the dates specified by requirements promulgated in 2003. These requirements will necessitate additional security expenditures in 2004. Additionally, Generation is in full compliance with all pre 2003 NRC security measures. On a continuing basis, 117 Table of Contents Generation is evaluating enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assessing long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expense to develop and implement but will provide increased assurances as to Generations ability to continue to operate under difficult times. The electric industry has also developed additional security guidelines as the result of various terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the U.S. Department of Energy. In 2003, the FERC issued minimum standards to safeguard the electric grid system control. These standards are expected to be effective in 2004 and fully implemented by January 2005. Generation participated in the development of these guidelines and is using them as a model for its security program. Insurance. In addition to nuclear liability insurance, Generation also carries property damage and liability insurance for its properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to terrorist acts, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. Generation is self insured for deductibles and to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under Generations property damage and liability insurance, together with the deductible, would negatively affect results of operations. Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2003 was $32 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statements of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Generation may incur substantial cost to fulfill obligations related to environmental matters. Generations business is subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which Generation conducts its operations and makes its capital expenditures. These regulations affect how Generation handles air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of its operations. In addition, Generation is subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by Generation and of property contaminated by hazardous substances it generates. Generation believes that it has a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, Generation has incurred and expects to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Also, Generation is currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2003, Generations reserve for environmental investigation and remediation costs was $10 million, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. Generation has accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that it believes are prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover its environmental liabilities. Generation cannot predict whether it will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by Generation, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. Taxation has a significant impact on Generations results of operations. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. Generation is required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and its ongoing operations to estimate its 118 Table of Contents obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that Generation has taken. Generation must also assess its ability to generate capital gains in future periods to realize tax benefits associated with capital losses expected to be generated in future periods. Capital losses may be deducted only to the extent of capital gains realized during the year of the loss or during the three prior or five succeeding years. As of December 31, 2003, Generation has not recorded an allowance against its deferred tax assets associated with impairment losses which will become capital losses when realized for income tax purposes. Generation believes these deferred tax assets will be realized in future periods. The ultimate outcome of such matters could result in additional adjustments to its consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Increases in state income taxes. Due to the revenue needs of the states in which Generation operates, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being contemplated. Generation cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, and, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase state income tax expense and could have a negative impact on Generations results of operations and cash flows. Generations results of operations may be affected by its ability to strategically divest certain businesses. Generation is actively pursuing opportunities to dispose of businesses, such as its investments in Sithe and Boston Generating, which are either unprofitable or do not advance Generations strategic goals. Generation may incur significant costs in divesting these businesses. Generation also may be unable to successfully implement its divestiture strategy of certain businesses for a number of reasons, including an inability to locate appropriate buyers or to negotiate acceptable terms for the transactions. The inability to divest certain businesses could negatively affect Generations results of operations. In addition, the amounts that may be realized from a divestiture are subject to fluctuating market conditions that may contribute to pricing and other terms that are materially different than expected and could result in a loss on the sale. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition within the markets that Generation operates. While demand for electricity is generally increasing throughout the United States, the rate of construction and development of new, more efficient, electric generating facilities and distribution methodologies may exceed increases in demand in some regional electric markets. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse affect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generation may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. Generation continues to opportunistically pursue investments that fit its strategic objectives and improve its financial performance. Generations future performance will depend in part upon a variety of factors related to these investments, including its ability to successfully integrate them into existing operations. These new investments, as well as existing investments, may not achieve the financial performance that are anticipated. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 119 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information appearing under the subheading Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Exhibit 99 3 to Exelons Current Report on Form 8 K dated February 20, 2004. ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with credit, interest rates and commodity price. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, and interest rates. Exelons RMC sets forth risk management policy and objectives for Exelon and its subsidiaries through a corporate policy and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of ComEds derivative activities. Credit Risk Credit risk for ComEd is managed by ComEds credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its respective franchised territories. For the year ended December 31, 2003, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 2% of its retail electric revenues. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Midwest Generation. ComEd is a party to various transactions with Midwest Generation, a subsidiary of Edison Mission Energy (EME) and Edison Mission Midwest Holdings (EMMH). Although earlier public filings in 2003 by EME indicated credit issues, a filing in December 2003 indicated that EMMH had secured financing and re paid its significant current debts. Thus, ComEds credit contingency risk associated with Midwest Generation has decreased during the fourth quarter of 2003. Interest Rate Risk ComEd uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions. ComEd also utilizes forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financing. These strategies are employed to maintain the lowest cost of capital. As of December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a less than $1 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2004. ComEd has entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps in order to maintain its targeted percentage of variable rate debt, associated with debt issuances in the aggregate amount of $485 million fixed rate obligation. At December 31, 2003, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $33 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2003. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2003 is estimated to be $39 million. 120 Table of Contents If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2003 is estimated to be $28 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount to be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. In 2003, ComEd entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $440 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The debt issuances that these swaps were hedging were considered probable; therefore, ComEd accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. In connection with the 2003 issuances of First Mortgage Bonds, forward starting interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $1,070 million were settled with net cash proceeds to counterparties of $45 million that has been deferred in regulatory assets and is being amortized over the life of the First Mortgage Bonds as a net increase to interest expense. At December 31, 2003, ComEd has settled all of its interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges. Commodity Price Risk ComEd has entered into a PPA with Generation to meet its retail customer obligations at fixed prices. ComEds principal exposure to commodity price risk is in relation to revenues collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an ARES or the ComEd PPO. Revenues collected from customers electing the PPO include commodity charges at market based prices and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. Because the change in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by the change in CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. CTC revenues are also collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an ARES. CTC rates are reset once a year in the spring, and customers can elect to lock in their CTC rates for a one , two or three year term. Based on the current customers who have elected the one year CTC rates, ComEd has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the net impact of a 10% increase in the average market price of electricity which would result in a $14 million decrease in CTC revenues. A 10% decrease in market prices would result in a $14 million increase in CTC revenues. The result may be significantly affected if additional customers elect to purchase energy from an ARES or if customers elect to purchase their energy from ComEd. PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in counterparty credit and interest rates. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management policy and objectives through a corporate policy and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers from each of the business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of Exelons derivative activities. As a result of the PPA with Generation and its purchased gas adjustment clause, PECO does not believe it is subject to material commodity price risk. Credit Risk Credit risk for PECO is managed by its credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised 121 Table of Contents service territories. As a result, PECO has a broad customer base. For the year ended December 31, 2003, PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 7% of its retail electric and gas revenues. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering. However, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Interest Rate Risk In 2003, PECO entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $360 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings, in connection with the issuance of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds. The debt issuances that these swaps were hedging were considered probable; therefore, PECO accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. PECO settled these swaps for net cash proceeds of $1 million, which was recorded in other comprehensive income and is being amortized over the life of the debt issuance. PETT has entered into floating to fixed interest rate swaps to manage interest rate exposure associated with the floating rate series of transition bonds issued to securitize PECOs stranded cost recovery. These interest rate swaps were designated as cash flow hedges. These interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value exposure of $11 million at December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2003 PETT, a wholly owned subsidiary, was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO. Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity prices. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity security prices. Exelons corporate RMC sets forth risk management policy and objectives through a corporate policy and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by Exelons chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers from each of the Exelon business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of Generations derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk Commodity price risk is associated with market price movements resulting from excess or insufficient generation, changes in fuel costs, market liquidity and other factors. Trading activities and non trading marketing activities include the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels, including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. The availability and prices of energy and energy related commodities are subject to fluctuations due to factors such as weather, governmental environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and Federal regulatory policies and other events. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of its obligations to customers, including Energy Deliverys retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge its anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is three years. Generation has an estimated 89% hedge ratio in 122 Table of Contents 2004 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of Generations forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, and energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, the amount hedged declines to meet the commitment to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any opportunistic efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity is approximately a $32 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes an 89% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of its overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Most non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133 discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Those that do not are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 and the ineffective portion of hedge contracts are recognized in earnings on a current basis. The following detailed presentation of the trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers. Generation does not consider its proprietary trading to be a significant activity in its business; however, Generation believes it is important to include these risk management disclosures. 123 Table of Contents The following table describes the drivers of Generations energy trading and marketing business and gross margin included in the income statement for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. Normal operations and hedging activities represent the marketing of electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, sold into the wholesale market. As the information in this table highlights, mark to market activities represent a small portion of the overall gross margin for Generation. Accrual activities, including normal purchases and sales, account for the majority of the gross margin. The mark to market activities reported here are those relating to changes in fair value due to external movement in prices. Further delineation of gross margin by the type of accounting treatment typically afforded each type of activity is also presented (i.e., mark to market vs. accrual accounting treatment). For the year ended December 31, 2003 Normal Operations and Hedging Activities (a) Proprietary Trading Total Mark to market activities: Unrealized mark to market gain/(loss) Origination unrealized gain/(loss) at inception $ $ $ Changes in fair value prior to settlements (b) 207 1 208 Changes in valuation techniques and assumptions Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (223 ) (4 ) (227 ) Total change in unrealized fair value (16 ) (3 ) (19 ) Realized net settlement of transactions subject to mark to market 223 4 227 Total mark to market activities gross margin $ 207 $ 1 $ 208 Accrual activities: Accrual activities revenue $ 5,187 $ $ 5,187 Hedge gains reclassified from OCI 2,358 2,358 Total revenue accrual activities 7,545 7,545 Purchased power and fuel 2,107 2,107 Hedges of purchased power and fuel reclassified from OCI 2,631 2,631 Total purchased power and fuel 4,738 4,738 Total accrual activities gross margin 2,807 2,807 Total gross margin (c) $ 3,014 $ 1 $ 3,015 (a) Normal Operations and Hedging Activities only include derivative contracts Power Team enters into to hedge anticipated exposures related to its owned and contracted generation supply, but excludes its owned and contracted generating assets. (b) Includes hedge ineffectiveness, recorded in earnings of $1 million. (c) Total Gross Margin represents revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense for Generation. 124 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2002 Normal Operations and Hedging Activities (a) Proprietary Trading Total Mark to market activities: Unrealized mark to market gain/(loss) Origination unrealized gain/(loss) at inception $ $ $ Changes in fair value prior to settlements 26 (29 ) (3 ) Changes in valuation techniques and assumptions Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts (20 ) 20 Total change in unrealized fair value 6 (9 ) (3 ) Realized net settlement of transactions subject to mark to market 20 (20 ) Total mark to market activities gross margin $ 26 $ (29 ) $ (3 ) Accrual activities: Accrual activities revenue $ 6,785 $ $ 6,785 Hedge gains reclassified from OCI 76 76 Total revenue accrual activities 6,861 6,861 Purchased power and fuel 4,230 4,230 Hedges of purchased power and fuel reclassified from OCI 23 23 Total purchased power and fuel 4,253 4,253 Total accrual activities gross margin 2,608 2,608 Total gross margin (b) $ 2,634 $ (29 ) $ 2,605 (a) Normal Operations and Hedging Activities only include derivative contracts Power Team enters into to hedge anticipated exposures related to its owned and contracted generation supply, but excludes its owned and contracted generating assets. (b) Total Gross Margin represents revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense for Generation. 125 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset (liability) balance sheet position from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2003. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table will incorporate the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as shown in the previous table, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Total mark to market energy contract net assets at January 1, 2002 $ 78 $ 14 $ 92 Total change in fair value during 2002 of contracts recorded in earnings 26 (29 ) (3 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (20 ) 20 Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI (53 ) (53 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (210 ) (210 ) Purchase/sale of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market 11 11 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2002 (168 ) 5 (163 ) Total change in fair value during 2003 of contracts recorded in earnings 206 206 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (223 ) (4 ) (227 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 273 273 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (305 ) (305 ) Purchase/sale of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2003 $ (217 ) $ 1 $ (216 ) The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2003: Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Current assets $ 319 $ 3 $ 322 Noncurrent assets 99 1 100 Total mark to market energy contract assets 418 4 422 Current liabilities (502 ) (3 ) (505 ) Noncurrent liabilities (133 ) (133 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (635 ) (3 ) (638 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (217 ) $ 1 $ (216 ) 126 Table of Contents The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2002: Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Proprietary Trading Total Current assets $ 186 $ 6 $ 192 Noncurrent assets 46 46 Total mark to market energy contract assets 232 6 238 Current liabilities (276 ) (276 ) Noncurrent liabilities (124 ) (1 ) (125 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (400 ) (1 ) (401 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (168 ) $ 5 $ (163 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask midpoint prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2003 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 127 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net liabilities, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within Total FairValue 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 and Beyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (1): Actively quoted prices $ 32 $ $ $ $ $ $ 32 Prices provided by other external sources (219 ) (23 ) (8 ) (250 ) Total $ (187 ) $ (23 ) $ (8 ) $ $ $ $ (218 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (2): Actively quoted prices $ 23 $ $ $ $ $ $ 23 Prices provided by other external sources (26 ) 9 5 (12 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 7 (5 ) (9 ) (3 ) (10 ) Total $ 4 $ 4 $ (4 ) $ (3 ) $ $ $ 1 Proprietary Trading, other derivative contracts (3): Actively quoted prices $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1 Prices provided by other external sources (1 ) 1 Prices based on model or other valuation methods Total $ $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ 1 Average tenor of proprietary trading portfolio (4) 1 year (1) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (2) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. (3) Mark to market gains and losses on trading contracts are recorded in earnings. (4) Following the recommendations of the Committee of Chief Risk Officers, the average tenor of the proprietary trading portfolio measures the average time to collect value for that portfolio. Generation measures the tenor by separating positive and negative mark to market values in its proprietary trading portfolio, estimating the mid point in years for each and then reporting the highest of the two mid points calculated. In the event that this methodology resulted in significantly different absolute values of the positive and negative cash flow streams, Generation would use the mid point of the portfolio with the largest cash flow stream as the tenor. 128 Table of Contents The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2003. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow HedgeOther Comprehensive Income Activity, Net of Income Tax Power TeamNormal Operations andHedging Activities Interest Rate andOther Hedges Total CashFlow Hedges Accumulated OCI, January 1, 2002 $ 47 $ (2 ) $ 45 Changes in fair value (128 ) (3 ) (131 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income (33 ) (33 ) Accumulated OCI, December 31, 2002 (114 ) (5 ) (119 ) Changes in fair value (186 ) (8 ) (194 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net loss 167 167 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2003 $ (133 ) $ (13 ) $ (146 ) Generation uses a Value at Risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk associated with financial derivative instruments entered into for proprietary trading purposes. The measured VaR represents an estimate of the potential change in value of Generations proprietary trading portfolio. The VaR estimate includes a number of assumptions about current market prices, estimates of volatility and correlations between market factors. These estimates, however, are not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may differ because actual market rate fluctuations may differ from forecasted fluctuations and because the portfolio may change over the holding period. Generation estimates VaR using a model based on the Monte Carlo simulation of commodity prices that captures the change in value of forward purchases and sales as well as option values. Parameters and values are back tested daily against daily changes in mark to market value for proprietary trading activity. VaR assumes that normal market conditions prevail and that there are no changes in positions. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its VaR. This means that Generation may state that there is a one in 20 chance that, if prices move against its portfolio positions, its pre tax loss in liquidating its portfolio in a one day holding period would exceed the calculated VaR. To account for unusual events and loss of liquidity, Generation uses stress tests and scenario analysis. 129 Table of Contents For financial reporting purposes only, Generation calculates several other VaR estimates. The higher the confidence interval, the less likely the chance that the VaR estimate would be exceeded. A longer holding period considers the effect of liquidity in being able to actually liquidate the portfolio. A two tailed test considers potential upside in the portfolio in addition to the potential downside in the portfolio considered in the one tailed test. The following table provides the VaR for all proprietary trading positions of Generation as of December 31, 2003. Proprietary Trading VaR 95% Confidence level, one day holding period, one tailed Period end $ Average for the period (0.1 ) High (0.2 ) Low 95% Confidence level, ten day holding period, two tailed Period end $ (0.1 ) Average for the period (0.5 ) High (0.9 ) Low (0.1 ) 99% Confidence level, one day holding period, two tailed Period end $ Average for the period (0.2 ) High (0.3 ) Low Credit Risk Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 130 Table of Contents The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. Credit exposure, in the below table, is defined as net accounts receivable as well as any net in the money forward mark to market exposure. Exposures are shown net, if such agreements with counterparties are in place. It further delineates that exposure by the credit rating of the counterparties and provides guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the table below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through Independent System Operators (ISOs) which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2003 Total Exposure Before CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 116 $ $ 116 1 $ 20 Non investment grade 22 7 15 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 152 $ 7 $ 145 1 $ 20 Rating as of December 31, 2002 TotalExposure Before CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 156 $ $ 156 2 $ 71 Non investment grade 17 11 6 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 27 4 23 4 16 Internally rated non investment grade 4 2 2 Total $ 204 $ 17 $ 187 6 $ 87 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2003 Less than 2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 101 $ 15 $ $ 116 Non investment grade 22 22 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 137 $ 15 $ $ 152 Dynegy. Generation is a counterparty to Dynegy in various energy transactions. In early July 2002, the credit ratings of Dynegy were downgraded to below investment grade by two credit rating agencies. Generation has credit risk associated with Dynegy through Generations equity investment in Sithe. Sithe is a 60% owner of the Independence generating station, a 1,028 MW gas fired facility that has an energy only long term tolling agreement with Dynegy, with a related financial swap arrangement. Sithe has entered into a contract to purchase the remaining 40% interest of the Sithe Independence Power Project (Independence) generating station. As of 131 Table of Contents December 31, 2003, Sithe had recognized an asset on its balance sheet related to the fair market value of the financial swap agreement with Dynegy that is marked to market under the terms of SFAS No. 133. If Dynegy were unable to fulfill the terms of this agreement, Sithe would be required to impair this financial swap asset. As a 50% owner of Sithe, Generations estimated impairment would result in an after tax reduction of equity earnings of approximately $5 million. In addition to the impairment of the financial swap asset, if Dynegy were unable to fulfill its obligations under the financial swap agreement and the tolling agreement, Sithe would likely incur a further impairment associated with the Independence plant. Depending upon the timing of Dynegys failure to fulfill its obligations and the outcome of any restructuring initiatives, Exelon could realize an after tax charge of up to $30 million, net of a FIN No. 45 quarantee recorded in connection with Generations sale of 50% of Sithe to Reservoir. In the event of a sale of Exelons investment in Sithe to a third party, proceeds from the sale could be negatively affected by up to $74 million, which would represent an after tax loss of up to $43 million. Additionally, the future economic value of AmerGens purchased power arrangement with Illinois Power Company, a subsidiary of Dynegy, could be affected by events related to Dynegys financial condition. On February 3, 2004, Dynegy announced an agreement to sell its subsidiary Illinois Power Company to a third party, which, upon closing of the transaction, would reduce Generations credit risk associated with Dynegy. Midwest Generation. Generation is party to various transactions with Midwest Generation, a subsidiary of EME and EMMH. Although earlier public filings in 2003 by EME indicated credit issues, a filing in December 2003 indicated that EMMH had secured financing and re paid its significant current debts. Thus, Generations credit contingency risk associated with Midwest Generation decreased during the fourth quarter of 2003. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generations counterparties and Generation to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets, which are administered by ISOs: PJM, New England ISO, New York ISO, California ISO, Midwest ISO, Inc., Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and Texas, which is administered by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Interest Rate Risk Generation uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Generation also uses interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market 132 Table of Contents conditions. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $1 million decrease in pre tax earnings for 2004. Under the terms of the Boston Generating Facility, Boston Generating is required to effectively fix the interest rate on 50% of borrowings under the facility through its maturity in 2007. As of December 31, 2003, Boston Generating had entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively fixed the interest rate on $861 million of notional principal, or 83% of borrowings outstanding under the Boston Generating credit facility at December 31, 2003. The fair market value exposure of these swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, was $77 million. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2003 is estimated to be $89 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. The aggregate fair value exposure of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2003 is estimated to be $65 million. If the derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2003, this estimated fair value represents the amount Generation would pay to the counterparties. In January 2004, the counterparties terminated the interest rate swaps with Boston Generating. The total net value of these swaps as of the respective termination dates was $82 million, which is a net payable to the counterparties. In 2003, Generation entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $500 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The debt issuances that these swaps are hedging were considered probable; therefore, Generation accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as hedges. In connection with Generations December 2003 issuance of Senior Notes, Generation settled swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $500 million for net cash proceeds of $1 million, which was recorded in other comprehensive income and is being amortized over the life of the debt issuance. Equity Price Risk Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning its nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2003, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs. However, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with its nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $303 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits section of ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 133 Table of Contents 
 
