ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Generation for a further discussion of nuclear decommissioning. 16 Zion, a two unit nuclear generation station, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Dresden Unit 1 have permanently ceased power generation. SNF at Zion and Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in on site storage pools and dry cask storage, respectively, until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All of Peach Bottom Unit 1s SNF has been moved off site. Generation has recorded a liability totaling $762 million at December 31, 2004, which represents the estimated cost of decommissioning Zion, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Dresden Unit 1 in current year dollars. Certain decommissioning costs are currently being incurred; however, the majority of decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after 2013, 2033 and 2030 for Zion, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Dresden Unit 1, respectively. Fossil and Hydroelectric Facilities Generation operates various fossil and hydroelectric facilities and maintains ownership interest in several other facilities such as La Porte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2004, approximately 8% of Generations electric supply was generated from Generations owned fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generations electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by the FERC. The Muddy Run and Conowingo facilities have licenses that expire in September 2014. Generation is considering applying to the FERC for license renewals of 40 years for the Muddy Run and Conowingo plants, but the duration of any license renewal will depend on then current policies at the FERC. The processing of a renewal to a hydroelectric license generally takes at least eight years. Insurance. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. For its other types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. Long Term Contracts In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the long term contracts described below: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MWs) Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2013 1,108 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP Franklin, Georgia 2030 925 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Green Country Energy, LLC Jenks, Oklahoma 2022 795 Elwood Energy, LLC Elwood, Illinois 2012 772 Lincoln Generating Facility, LLC Manhattan, Illinois 2011 664 Reliant Energy Aurora, LP Aurora, Illinois 2008 600 Others Various 2005 to 2021 3,007 Total 8,701 17 Federal Power Act The Federal Power Act gives the FERC exclusive rate making jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, all public utilities subject to the FERCs jurisdiction are required to file rate schedules with the FERC with respect to wholesale sales and transmission of electricity. Transmission tariffs established under FERC regulation give Generation access to transmission lines that enable it to participate in competitive wholesale markets. Because Generation sells power in the wholesale markets, Generation is a public utility for purposes of the Federal Power Act and is required to obtain the FERCs acceptance of the rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. In 2000, Generation received authorization from the FERC to sell power at market based rates. As is customary with market based rate schedules, the FERC reserved the right to suspend market based rate authority on a retroactive basis if it subsequently determined that Generation or any of its affiliates exercised or has the ability to exercise market power. The FERC is also authorized to order refunds if it finds that the market based rates are not just and reasonable. In December 1999, the FERC issued Order No. 2000 to encourage the voluntary formation of RTOs which would provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. The intended benefits of establishing these entities includes the development of larger wholesale markets and the elimination or reduction of transmission charges imposed by successive transmission systems when wholesale generators cross several transmission systems to deliver capacity. Order No. 2000 and the FERCs effort to promote RTOs throughout the states have generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. In addition, efforts to develop a RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. PJM has been approved as a RTO, as has the Midwest ISO. ISO New England, the system operator for New England where Generation also owns facilities, was approved as a RTO on February 2, 2005. Exelon supports the development of RTOs and implementation of standard market protocols but cannot predict their success or whether they will lead to the development of the envisioned large, successful wholesale markets. The FERC issued a final rule establishing standardized generator interconnection policies and procedures. Under this interconnection policy generators will benefit from not having to deal on a case by case basis with different and sometimes inconsistent requirements of different transmission providers. The FERC recently announced new market power tests for suppliers to qualify to sell power at market based rates. These new tests, the market share test and the pivotal supplier test, must both be passed by Generation, or market power mitigation must be imposed for Generation to continue to make sales of capacity and energy in the wholesale market at market based rates. Generation filed its analysis of the application of the tests on September 27, 2004, which proposed that Generation passed the market power screens. The FERC allows the relevant geographic market to include a RTOs footprint, and Generation used an expanded PJM footprint as the relevant market. Because ComEd and PECO, which purchase most of Generations power, are members of PJM, Generation, for the most part, is selling into the PJM market. On January 5, 2005, the FERC issued a deficiency letter to Generation requesting a response to twelve separate questions relating to Generations filing. On January 26, 2005, Generation filed an initial response to the deficiency letter, answering certain questions and requesting until February 14, 2005 to complete the response to the deficiency letter. The FERC continues to process Generations application and market power analysis, as well as other applicants filings. Management expects that Generation will eventually pass the market power 18 screens; however, there is no certainty as to what final determination will be made by the FERC in regard to Generations filing and the filings of other applicants. Currently, a significant portion of Generations capacity is located within the PJM RTO area. If the FERC were to suspend Generations market based rate authority, Generation would be required to supply and implement a plan for mitigation of market power. FERCs default mitigation would require Generation to file and obtain FERC acceptance of cost based rate schedules or schedules tied to a public index. In addition, the loss of market based rate authority would subject Generation to the accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on public utilities with cost based rate schedules. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in gigawatthours (GWhs) for 2004 and estimated for 2005: Source of Electric Supply 2004 2005 (Est.) Nuclear units 136,621 137,870 Purchases non trading portfolio 48,968 44,479 Fossil and hydroelectric units 17,010 21,325 Total supply 202,599 203,674 The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its commitment to supply the requirements of ComEd and PECO, some of Exelon Energys requirements, and for sales to other utilities. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2007. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2007. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2007. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2007. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services for its nuclear units. Generation obtains approximately 25% of its uranium enrichment services from European suppliers. There is an ongoing trade action by USEC, Inc. alleging dumping in the United States against European enrichment services suppliers. In January 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission determined that USEC, Inc. was materially injured or threatened with material injury by low enriched uranium exported by European suppliers. The U.S. Department of Commerce has assessed countervailing and anti dumping duties against the European suppliers. Both USEC, Inc. and the European suppliers have appealed these decisions. Generation is uncertain at this time as to the outcome of the pending appeals; however, as a result of these actions, Generation may incur higher costs for uranium enrichment services necessary for the production of nuclear fuel. Coal is obtained for coal fired plants primarily through annual contracts with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. 19 Natural gas requirements for operating stations are procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. Power Team Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity, and long , intermediate and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. These agreements are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including Energy Delivery. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale energy market. Generation has also purchased transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs. Power Team also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is three years. Generations hedge ratio in 2005 for its energy marketing portfolio is approximately 90%. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to Energy Deliverys retail load. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand and volatility. During peak periods, the amount hedged declines to assure Generations commitment to meet Energy Deliverys demand, for which the peak demand is during the summer. For the portion of generation supply that is unhedged, fluctuations in market price of energy will cause volatility in Generations results of operations. Power Team also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Power Teams efforts. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk management group and Exelons Risk Management Committee (RMC) monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. 20 At December 31, 2004, Generations long term commitments, relating to the purchase and sale of energy, capacity and transmission rights from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power OnlySales Power Only Purchasesfrom Non Affiliates Transmission RightsPurchases (b) 2005 $ 578 $ 2,551 $ 1,446 $ 31 2006 581 961 605 3 2007 533 167 254 2008 462 9 195 2009 437 9 194 Thereafter 3,664 343 548 Total (c) $ 6,255 $ 4,040 $ 3,242 $ 34 (a) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2004. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are conditional on plant availability. (b) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments in 2005 and 2006 for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. (c) Included in the totals are $395 million of power only sales commitments related to Sithe, which were not retained by Generation following the sale of Sithe. See Note 3 and Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these transactions. In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA, as amended, with ComEd under which Generation has agreed to supply all of ComEds load requirements through 2006. Under the ComEd PPA, prices for energy vary depending upon the time of day and month of delivery. Subsequent to 2006, ComEd expects to procure all of its supply from market sources, which could include Generation. Additionally, Generation has a PPA with PECO under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with substantially all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. PECO has also assigned its rights and obligations under various PPAs and fuel supply agreements to Generation. Generation supplies power to PECO from the transferred generation assets, assigned PPAs and other market sources. Subsequent to 2010, PECO expects to procure all of its supply from market sources, which could include Generation. When AmerGen acquired Clinton Nuclear Power Station (Clinton), AmerGen entered into a power sales agreement with the seller, Illinois Power Company (Illinois Power). The agreement with Illinois Power was for 68.8% of Clintons output for a term that expired on December 31, 2004. Generation has subsequently entered into a separate agreement with Illinois Power to provide fixed quantities of power under a power sales agreement over future periods beginning January 1, 2005. This agreement is included in the commitment table presented above. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2005 are as follows: (in millions) Production plant $ 575 Nuclear fuel 498 Total $ 1,073 21 Enterprises During 2004 and 2003, Enterprises exited a significant number of businesses and investments, as described below. As of December 31, 2004, Enterprises consisted primarily of the remaining electrical contracting business of F&M Holdings, LLC. Enterprises is continuing to pursue opportunities to sell its remaining businesses. Exelon Energy Company. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, was transferred to Generation. InfraSource, Inc. On September 24, 2003, Enterprises sold the electric construction and services, underground and telecom businesses of InfraSource, Inc. for cash proceeds of approximately $175 million, net of transaction costs and cash transferred to the buyer upon sale plus a $30 million subordinated note. Enterprises recorded a net pre tax loss and minority interest of $4 million associated with the sale and goodwill impairment charge in 2003. Exelon Services, Inc. During 2004, Enterprises disposed of or wound down all of the operating businesses of Exelon Services, Inc. (Exelon Services), including Exelon Solutions, the mechanical services businesses and the Integrated Technology Group. Total expected proceeds and the pre tax net gain on sale recorded in 2004 related to the disposition of the Exelon Services businesses were $61 million and $9 million, respectively. Exelon Thermal Holdings, Inc. On June 30, 2004, Enterprises sold its Chicago businesses of Exelon Thermal Holdings, Inc. (Thermal) for net cash proceeds of $134 million and expected proceeds of $2 million from a working capital settlement, resulting in a pre tax gain of $36 million, net of debt prepayment penalties. On September 29, 2004, Enterprises closed on the sale of ETT Nevada, Inc., the holding company for its investment in Northwind Aladdin, LLC, for a net cash outflow of $1 million, subject to working capital adjustments. Enterprises recorded a pre tax loss of $3 million related to the disposition. On October 28, 2004, Northwind Windsor, of which Enterprises owns a 50% interest, sold substantially all of its assets, providing Enterprises with cash proceeds of $8 million, resulting in a pre tax gain of $2 million. PECO TelCove. On June 30, 2004, Enterprises sold its investment in PECO TelCove, a communications joint venture, along with certain telecommunications assets, for proceeds of $49 million, resulting in a pre tax gain of $9 million. Exelon Capital Partners Holdings, LLC. During 2004, Enterprises sold its direct investments and investments in three of its four venture capital funds. Employees As of December 31, 2004, Exelon and its subsidiaries had approximately 17,300 employees in the following companies: ComEd 5,600 PECO 2,100 Generation 7,500 Enterprises 100 Corporate (a) 2,000 Total 17,300 (a) Includes shared services employees. 22 Approximately 5,500 employees, including 3,800 employees of ComEd, 1,600 employees of Generation and 100 employees of BSC, are covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) with Local 15 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW Local 15). AmerGen has separate CBAs for each of its nuclear facilities, which cover an aggregate of approximately 700 employees. The Generation CBA with IBEW Local 15 has been extended to September 30, 2007. The CBA for ComEd and BSC expires on September 30, 2008. The Clinton, Oyster Creek and TMI CBAs expire on December 15, 2005, January 31, 2006 and February 28, 2009, respectively. Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has negotiated and ratified its first agreement with IBEW Local 614. The agreement expires on January 31, 2008 and covers approximately 200 employees. In addition to IBEW Local 15, IBEW Local 614 and the four IBEW locals covering the AmerGen facilities, approximately 50 Generation employees are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America. During 2004, two elections were held at PECO which resulted in union representation for approximately 1,100 employees in the Philadelphia service territory. PECO and IBEW Local 614 will begin negotiations for an initial agreement in the first quarter of 2005. The employees of the Limerick and Peach Bottom nuclear stations are not currently covered by a CBA. IBEW 614 has filed a petition with the National Labor Relations Board to hold a certification election at these sites. The election will be held in the first quarter of 2005. Environmental Regulation General Specific operations of Exelon, primarily those of ComEd, PECO and Generation, are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by various states and local jurisdictions where Exelon operates its facilities. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. The Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the State of Illinois, together with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, which enforces regulations of the IPCB and issues permits in connection with environmental control. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PDEP) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has jurisdiction in Texas, and the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction in Massachusetts. State regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated. Those permits must be renewed periodically. Generation either has NPDES permits for all of its generating stations or has pending applications for renewals of such permits while operating under an administrative extension. In July 2004, the EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. This rule establishes national requirements for reducing the adverse environmental impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing power plants. The rule identifies particular standards of performance with respect to entrainment and impingement and requires each facility to monitor and validate this performance in future years. The requirements will be 23 implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. All of Generations power generation facilities with cooling water systems are subject to the regulations. Facilities without closed cycle recirculating systems are potentially most affected. Those facilities are Clinton, Cromby, Dresden, Eddystone, Fairless Hills, Handley, Mountain Creek, New Boston, Oyster Creek, Peach Bottom, Quad Cities and Salem. Generation is currently evaluating compliance options at its affected plants. At this time, Generation cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the Phase II rule requirements will have on the operation of its generating facilities and its future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There are many factors to be considered and evaluated to determine how Generation will comply with the Phase II rule requirements and the extent to which such compliance may result in financial and operational impacts. The considerations and evaluations include, but are not limited to obtaining clarifying interpretations of the requirements from state regulators, resolving outstanding litigation proceedings concerning the requirements, completing studies to establish biological baselines for each facility, and performing environmental and economic cost benefit evaluation of the potential compliance alternatives in accordance with the requirements. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and interstate agencies, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. In June 2001, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) issued a renewed National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit for Salem, expiring in July 2006, allowing for the continued operation of Salem with its existing cooling water system. An application for renewal of that permit, including a demonstration of compliance with the requirements of the recently published Federal Water Pollution Control Act Section 316(b) regulations, must be submitted to NJDEP by February 2, 2006 unless NJDEP grants additional time to collect information to comply with the new regulations. NJDEP advised PSEG in a letter dated July 12, 2004 that it strongly recommends reducing cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed cycle cooling as a compliance option for Salem. PSEG has not made a determination regarding how it will demonstrate compliance with the Section 316(b) regulations. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations requires the retrofitting of Salems cooling water intake structure to reduce cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed cycle cooling, the retrofit and an resulting cost of interim replacement power could result in material costs of compliance to the owners of the facility. Solid and Hazardous Waste The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These potentially responsible parties (PRPs) can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. ComEd, PECO and Generation and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites, or may 24 undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. By notice issued in November 1986, the EPA notified over 800 entities, including ComEd and PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to releases of radioactive and or toxic substances from the Maxey Flats disposal site, a LLRW disposal site near Moorehead, Kentucky, where ComEd and PECO disposed of low level radioactive wastes resulting from their nuclear generation activities, which are now the responsibility of Generation. A settlement was reached among the Federal and private PRPs, including ComEd and PECO, the Commonwealth of Kentucky (Kentucky) and the EPA concerning their respective roles and responsibilities in conducting remedial activities at the site. Under the settlement, which was incorporated into a Federal court Consent Decree, the private PRPs agreed to perform the initial remedial work at the site and Kentucky agreed to assume responsibility for long range maintenance and final remediation of the site. On October 5, 2003, the EPA issued a Certificate of Completion indicating that the private PRPs have completed their obligations under the Consent Decree. The site is being turned over to Kentucky as provided in the Consent Decree. The private PRPs, including Generation, will maintain oversight of Kentuckys activities to assure the stability of the site since the private PRPs have residual liability if there is a remedy failure over the next ten years. By notice issued in December 1987, the EPA notified several entities, including PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to wastes resulting from the treatment and disposal of transformers and miscellaneous electrical equipment at a site located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Metal Bank of America site). Several of the PRPs, including PECO, formed a steering committee to investigate the nature and extent of possible involvement in this matter. On May 29, 1991, a Consent Order was issued by the EPA pursuant to which the members of the steering committee agreed to perform the remedial investigation and feasibility study as described in the work plan issued with the Consent Order. PECOs share of the cost of the study was approximately 30%. On July 19, 1995, the EPA issued a proposed plan for remediation of the site, which involves removal of contaminated soil, sediment and groundwater and which the EPA estimated would cost approximately $17 million to implement. On June 26, 1998, the EPA issued an order to the non de minimis PRP group members, and others, including the owner, to implement the remedial design and remedial action. The PRP group has conducted the remedial design and submitted to the EPA the revised final design on January 15, 2003. During the design process, the PRP group proposed certain revisions to the EPAs preferred remedy, in response to which the EPA has issued two explanations of significant differences that are expected to reduce the costs of the preferred remedy. The final design estimates for the cost to implement the remedial action range from $14 million to $17 million. Significant progress has been made in settlement discussions between the EPA, the PRP group and the former owners and operators of the site. Exelon now believes that it is probable that the parties will agree to a settlement within the remedial range and that Exelons share of such settlement will be approximately 30%. This amount does not include Exelons share of the PRP groups future legal and technical expenses, which are not expected to be material. The settlement amount will also not include any damages for natural resource damages that the EPA or state environmental agencies may seek to obtain in the future, and at this time PECO cannot predict with reasonable certainty the likelihood that such damages will be sought or the amount of any such damages. Cotter Corporation The EPA has advised Cotter Corporation (Cotter), a former ComEd subsidiary, that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. Cotter is alleged to have disposed of approximately 39,000 tons of soils mixed with 8,700 25 tons of leached barium sulfate at the site. Cotter, along with three other companies identified by the EPA as PRPs, has submitted a draft feasibility study addressing options for remediation of the site. The PRPs are also engaged in discussions with the State of Missouri and the EPA. The estimated costs of the anticipated remediation strategy for the site ranges up to $22 million. Once a remedy is selected, it is expected that the PRPs will agree on an allocation of responsibility for the costs. On February 18, 2000, ComEd sold Cotter to an unaffiliated third party. As part of the sale, ComEd agreed to indemnify Cotter for liability from the West Lake Landfill and the litigation described under ITEM 3. Litigation Generation. In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, the responsibility to indemnify Cotter for any liability related to these matters was transferred by ComEd to Generation. MGP Sites MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to 1950. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did, however, acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities. Approximately half of the ComEd sites were transferred to Nicor Gas as part of a general conveyance in 1954. ComEd also acquired former MGP sites as vacant real estate on which ComEd facilities have been constructed. To date, ComEd has identified 42 former MGP sites for which it may be liable for remediation. Of these 42 sites, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency has approved the clean up of four sites. Similarly, PECO has identified 27 sites where former MGP activities may have resulted in site contamination. Of these 27 sites, the PDEP has approved the clean up of nine sites. With respect to these sites, ComEd and PECO are presently engaged in performing various levels of activities, including initial evaluation to determine the existence and nature of the contamination, detailed evaluation to determine the extent of the contamination and the necessity and possible methods of remediation, and implementation of remediation. ComEd and PECO are working closely with regulatory authorities in the various jurisdictions to develop and implement appropriate plans and schedules for evaluation, risk ranking, detailed study and remediation activities on an individual site and overall program basis. The status of each of the sites in the program varies and is reviewed periodically with the regulatory authorities. At December 31, 2004, ComEd and PECO had accrued $55 million (discounted) and $41 million (discounted), respectively, for investigation and remediation of these MGP sites that currently can be reasonably estimated. ComEd and PECO believe that they could incur additional liabilities with respect to MGP sites, which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. PECO has settled in principle with all of the insurers in the insurance litigation lawsuit for remediation costs associated with former MGP sites. PECO expects to finalize all settlement agreements in the first quarter of 2005. ComEd is in settlement negotiations with one insurance carrier for remediation costs associated with former MGP sites. Additionally, PECO is currently collecting through regulated gas rates, revenues to offset expenditures on MGP site remediation. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the EPA and the various state environmental agencies in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Illinois and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act (CAA) Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution. The Amendments include a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from electric power plants. Flue gas desulphurization systems (scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units other than the Keystone Station. Keystone is subject to, and in compliance with, the Phase II SO2 and NOx limits of the 26 Amendments, which became effective January 1, 2000. Generation and the other Keystone co owners are purchasing SO2 emission allowances to comply with the Phase II limits. Generation has completed implementation of measures, including the installation of NOx emissions controls and the imposition of certain operational constraints, to comply with the Reasonably Available Control Technology limitations and state level ozone season (May to September) NOx reduction regulations. These state level regulations were developed by eastern states to reduce summertime NOx emissions pursuant to several Federal NOx reduction regulations adopted by the Federal EPA during 1998 and 1999 to address regional ozone transport. State level NOx reduction regulations took effect May 1, 2003 in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. Compliance in Illinois started May 31, 2004. Texas is not covered by the EPAs ozone transport regulations. The EPAs ozone transport regulations currently require 19 eastern states to reduce summertime NOx emissions. Generation has evaluated options for compliance with the new NOx regulations and installed controls on the two coal fired units at the Eddystone Generating Station (Selective Non Catalytic Reduction) and installed controls on the two coal fired units (Selective Catalytic Reduction) at the Keystone Generating Station. Generations NOx compliance program will be supplemented with the purchase of additional NOx allowances on an as needed basis. The eight new peaking units commissioned during 2002 at the Southeast Chicago Generating Station are equipped with NOx controls that meet requirements for new sources. The Handley and Mountain Creek stations in the Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) area are required to comply with the DFW NOx State Implementation Plan (SIP) that commenced on May 1, 2003, with full implementation on May 1, 2005. Additionally, beginning May 1, 2003, these plants were required to comply with the Emission Banking and Trading of Allowances (EBTA) program established by the State of Texas for the purpose of achieving substantial reductions in NOx from grandfathered electric generating facilities. To comply with both the DFW NOx SIP and EBTA program, Generation, as of June 30, 2004, had installed Selective Catalytic Reduction technology on Handley Units 3, 4 and 5, as well as Mountain Creek Unit 8. Additionally, Induced Flue Gas Recirculation Technology was installed on Mountain Creek Unit 6. Induced Flue Gas Recirculation Technology will be installed on Mountain Creek Unit 7 in 2005 prior to the DFW NOx SIP program being fully implemented on May 1, 2005. This will complete all NOx control technology upgrades planned for the DFW plants. Many other provisions of the Amendments affect activities of Exelons businesses, primarily Generation. The Amendments establish stringent control measures for geographical regions that have been determined by the EPA not to meet National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS); establish limits on the purchase and operation of motor vehicles and require increased use of alternative fuels; establish stringent controls on emissions of toxic air pollutants and provide for possible future designation of some utility emissions as toxic; establish new permit and monitoring requirements for sources of air emissions; and provide for significantly increased enforcement power, and civil and criminal penalties. Several other legislative and regulatory proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including generating plants, are under active consideration. On the Federal legislative front, several multi pollutant bills have been introduced in Congress that would reduce generating plant emissions of NOx, SO2, mercury and or carbon dioxide starting late this decade. On the Federal regulatory front, the EPA issued several new proposed rulemakings during 2004 to reduce powerplant emissions of SO2, NOx and mercury. In its proposed Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) rulemaking, the EPA has proposed NOx and SO2 emission caps in 29 eastern states, to be phased in during 2010 and 2015, that are substantially below current industry emission levels. The CAIR rule is intended to support regional attainment of Federal ground level ozone (eight hour) and fine particulate (PM2.5) NAAQS. In a separate hazardous air pollutant related rulemaking, the EPA has also proposed several options to regulate mercury emissions from coal fired power plants under either 27 Section 112 or Section 111 of the CAA. Regulation of nickel emissions from oil fired power plants is also contemplated as part of this latter proposed rulemaking. Exelon is unable at this time to ascertain which proposals may take effect, what requirements they may contain, or how they may affect Exelons businesses. At this time, Exelon can provide no assurance that these proposals if adopted will not have a significant effect on Generations operations and cash flows. Global Climate Change The United States is currently not a party to the United Nations Kyoto Protocol (Protocol) that became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at certain levels during the 2008 2012 time period. Although it is not a signatory to the Protocol, the United States may adopt a national, mandatory GHG program at some point in the future. At this time, Exelon is unable to predict the potential impacts of any future mandatory governmental GHG legislative or regulatory requirements on its businesses. In the absence of a mandatory national program, Exelon has joined the U.S. EPA Climate Leaders Partnership (Climate Leader). As a Climate Leader partner, Exelon is conducting an annual inventory of its GHG emissions, developing a GHG emission reduction goal, and annually reporting its GHG emissions and progress toward achieving GHG reductions. As an integrated electric and gas utility, approximately 90% of Generations GHG emissions result from the combustion of fossil fuels to generate electricity, with carbon dioxide (CO2) representing the largest quantity of GHG emitted. The majority of Generations owned generation is comprised of nuclear and hydro electric assets that have negligible GHG emissions compared to fossil based electric generation alternatives. By virtue of Generations significant investment in these low carbon intensity assets, Generations owned generation portfolio CO2 emission intensity, or rate of CO2 emitted per kilowatt hour of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Approximately 17 states have adopted some form of renewable portfolio standard (RPS) legislation. On November 30, 2004, Pennsylvania adopted Act 213, the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act of 2004 (AEPS Act). The AEPS Act mandates that two years after its effective date (February 28, 2005) at least 1.5% of electric energy sold by an electric distribution company or electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers must come from Tier I alternative energy resources. The Tier I requirement escalates to 8.0% by the 15th year after the effective date of the AEPS Act. The AEPS Act also establishes a Tier II requirement of 4.2% for years one through four. This requirement grows to 10.0% by the 15th year. Tier I resources include: solar photovoltaic energy, wind power, low impact hydro, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy and coal mine methane. A small percentage of the Tier I requirements must be met specifically by solar photovoltaic technologies (starting at 0.0013% in year 1 and escalating to 0.25% by year 10). Tier II resources include: waste coal, distributed generation systems, demand side management, large scale hydropower, municipal solid waste and several other technologies. The AEPS Act provides an exemption for electric distribution companies that have not reached the end of their cost recovery period during which competitive transition charges or intangible transition charges are being recovered. At the conclusion of the electric distribution companys cost recovery period, this exemption no longer applies and compliance by the electric distribution company is required at the percentages in effect at that time. PECOs cost recovery period expires December 31, 2010. 28 In the first year after the end of an electric distribution companys cost recovery period, the AEPS Act provides for cost recovery on a full and current basis pursuant to an automatic energy adjustment charge as a cost of generation supply. The banking of credits from voluntary sales of Tier I and Tier II sources sold by electric distribution companies prior to the expiration of their specific cost recovery periods is also allowed under the AEPS Act. Voluntary sales under the AEPS Act are deferred as a regulatory asset by the electric distribution company and are fully recoverable at the end of the cost recovery period, also pursuant to an automatic energy adjustment clause as a cost of generation supply. The PUC is required to establish regulations to implement the AEPS Act. These regulations will be material to a complete assessment of the effects of the AEPS Act on PECO. While Generation is not directly affected from a compliance perspective, increased deployment of renewable and alternative energy resources within the regional power pool resulting from the AEPS Act will have some influence on regional energy markets. In addition to the AEPS Act, similar legislation has been, and may be, considered by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements, including Illinois, may determine to adopt such legislation in the future. Exelon is currently evaluating the potential impacts of RPS legislation on its businesses. Costs At December 31, 2004, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued $61 million, $47 million and $16 million, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation. These costs include approximately $55 million at ComEd and $41 million at PECO for former MGP sites as described above. ComEd, PECO and Generation cannot currently predict whether they will incur other significant liabilities for additional investigation and remediation costs at sites presently identified or additional sites which may be identified by ComEd, PECO and Generation, environmental agencies or others, or whether all such costs will be recoverable through rates or from third parties. The budgets for expenditures in 2005 at ComEd, PECO and Generation for compliance with environmental requirements total approximately $8 million, $8 million and $7 million, respectively. In addition, ComEd, PECO and Generation may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Security Exelon does not know the impact that future terrorist attacks or threats of terrorism may have on the electric and gas industry in general and on Exelon in particular. Exelon has initiated security measures to safeguard its employees and critical operations from threats of terrorism and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of Exelons energy production and delivery systems. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expenses to develop and implement, but will provide increased assurances as to Exelons ability to maintain critical operations. Generation has met or exceeded all security measures mandated by the NRC for nuclear plants. On a continuing basis, Exelon is evaluating enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response, and recovery plans and assessing long term design changes and redundancy measures. 29 Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities ComEd Transitional Funding Trust (ComEd Funding Trust), a Delaware statutory trust, was formed on October 28, 1998, pursuant to a trust agreement among First Union Trust Company, National Association, now Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Delaware trustee, and two individual trustees appointed by ComEd. ComEd Funding LLC, a special purpose Delaware limited liability company, was organized on July 21, 1998. ComEd Funding Trust was created for the sole purpose of issuing transitional funding notes to securitize intangible transition property granted to ComEd Funding LLC, a ComEd affiliate, by an ICC order issued July 21, 1998. On December 16, 1998, ComEd Funding Trust issued $3.4 billion of transitional funding notes, the proceeds of which were used to purchase the intangible transition property held by ComEd Funding LLC. ComEd Funding LLC transferred the proceeds to ComEd where they were used, among other things, to repurchase outstanding debt and equity securities of ComEd. The transitional funding notes are solely obligations of ComEd Funding Trust and are secured by the intangible transition property, which represents the right to receive instrument funding charges collected from ComEds customers. The instrument funding charges represent a non bypassable, usage based, per kWh charge on designated consumers of electricity. ComEd Financing II, a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by ComEd on November 20, 1996. ComEd Financing II was created solely for the purpose of issuing and selling preferred and common securities. On January 24, 1997, ComEd Financing Trust II issued $150 million of trust preferred securities, carrying an annual distribution rate of 8.50%, which are mandatorily redeemable on January 15, 2027. ComEd is the sole owner of all of the common securities of ComEd Financing Trust II. The sole assets of ComEd Financing II are $155 million principal amount of 8.50% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due January 15, 2027, issued by ComEd. ComEd Financing III, a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by ComEd on September 5, 2002. ComEd Financing III was created for the sole purpose of issuing and selling preferred and common securities. On March 17, 2003, ComEd Financing III issued $200 million of trust preferred securities, carrying an annual distribution rate of 6.35%, which are mandatorily redeemable on March 15, 2033. ComEd is the sole owner of all of the common securities of ComEd Financing Trust III. The sole assets of ComEd Financing III are $206 million principal amount of 6.35% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due March 15, 2033, issued by ComEd. PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), a Delaware statutory trust wholly owned by PECO, was formed on June 23, 1998 pursuant to a trust agreement among PECO, as grantor, First Union Trust Company, National Association, now Wachovia Bank, National Association, as issuer trustee, and two beneficiary trustees appointed by PECO. PETT was created for the sole purpose of issuing transition bonds to securitize a portion of PECOs authorized stranded cost recovery. On March 25, 1999, PETT issued $4 billion of its Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. On May 2, 2000, PETT issued $1 billion of its Series 2000 A Transition Bonds and on March 1, 2001, PETT issued $805 million of its Series 2001 A Transition Bonds to refinance a portion of the Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. The Transition Bonds are solely obligations of PETT secured by intangible transition property, representing the right to collect transition charges sufficient to pay the principal and interest on the Transition Bonds. PECO Energy Capital Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of PECO (PECC), is the sole general partner of PECO Energy Capital, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (PEC L.P.). PEC L.P. was created solely for the purpose of issuing preferred securities, representing limited partnership interests and lending the proceeds thereof to PECO and entering into similar financing arrangements. The loans to PECO are evidenced by PECOs deferrable interest subordinated debentures (Subordinated Debentures), which are the only assets of PEC L.P. The only revenues of PEC L.P. are interest on the Subordinated Debentures. All of the operating expenses of PEC L.P. are paid by PECC. As of 30 December 31, 2004, PEC L.P. held $81 million aggregate principal amount of the Subordinated Debentures. PECO Energy Capital Trust III (PECO Trust III), a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by PECO in April 1998. PECO Trust III was created solely for the purpose of issuing $78 million trust receipts (Trust III Receipts) each representing a 7.38% Cumulative Preferred Security, Series D (Series D Preferred Securities) of PEC L.P. PEC L.P. is the sponsor of PECO Trust III. As of December 31, 2004, PECO Trust III had outstanding 78,105 Trust III Receipts. At December 31, 2004, the assets of PECO Trust III consisted solely of 78,105 Series D Preferred Securities with an aggregate stated liquidation preference of $81 million. PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV), a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by PECO in May 2003. PECO Trust IV was created solely for the purpose of issuing and selling preferred and common securities. On June 17, 2003, PECO Trust IV issued $100 million of trust preferred securities, carrying an annual distribution rate of 5.75%, which are mandatorily redeemable on June 15, 2033. PECO is the sole owner of all of the common securities of the PECO Trust IV. The sole assets of PECO Trust IV are $103 million principal amount of 5.75% subordinated debentures issued by PECO. The financing trusts discussed above were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO in 2003. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Executive Officers of the Registrants at December 31, 2004 Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 59 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President Clark, Frank M. 59 Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff McLean, Ian P. 55 Executive Vice President Mehrberg, Randall E. 49 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Moler, Elizabeth A. 55 Executive Vice President Shapard, Robert S. 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Skolds, John L. 54 Executive Vice President Snodgrass, S. Gary 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Strobel, Pamela B. 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer Young, John F. 48 Executive Vice President Hilzinger, Matthew F. 41 Vice President and Corporate Controller ComEd Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 59 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon, and Chair and Director Shapard, Robert S. 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Director Snodgrass, S. Gary 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, Exelon, and Director Skolds, John L. 54 President, Exelon Energy Delivery, and Director Clark, Frank M. 59 President and Director Gillis, Ruth Ann M. 50 Executive Vice President Mitchell, J. Barry 56 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer Hilzinger, Matthew F. 41 Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon 31 PECO Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 59 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon, and Director Shapard, Robert S. 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Director Skolds, John L. 54 President, Exelon Energy Delivery, and Director OBrien, Denis P. 44 President and Director Mitchell, J. Barry 56 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer Hilzinger, Matthew F. 41 Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon Generation Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 59 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon Shapard, Robert S. 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon Young, John F. 48 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and President McLean, Ian P. 55 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and President, Power Team Crane, Christopher M. 46 Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear Schiavoni, Mark A. 49 Senior Vice President and President, Exelon Power Mitchell, J. Barry 56 Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer Veurink, Jon D. 40 Vice President and Controller Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective companys board of directors until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Rowe was President and Co Chief Executive of Exelon, Co Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and President, Co Chief Executive Officer of PECO; and Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and Unicom. Mr. Rowe was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Clark was Senior Vice President, Distribution Customer and Marketing Services and External Affairs of ComEd; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd; Governmental Affairs Vice President; and Governmental Affairs Manager. Mr. Clark was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Senior Vice President of Exelon; President of the Power Team division of PECO; and Group Vice President of Engelhard Corporation. Mr. McLean was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mehrberg was Senior Vice President of Exelon; an equity partner with the law firm of Jenner & Block; and General Counsel and Lakefront Director of the Chicago Park District. Mr. Mehrberg was elected as an officer effective December 3, 2001. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Moler was Senior Vice President, Government Affairs and Policy of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Director of Unicom and ComEd; Partner at the law firm of Vinson & Elkins, LLP; Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy; and Chair of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Ms. Moler was elected as an officer effective October 20, 2000. 32 Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Shapard was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Covanta Energy Corporation; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ultramar Diamond Shamrock; Chief Executive Officer of TSU Australia, Ltd., and Vice President, Finance and Treasurer at TXU. Mr. Shapard was elected as an officer effective October 21, 2002. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Skolds was Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; and President and Chief Operating Officer of South Carolina Electric and Gas. Mr. Skolds was elected as an officer effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Snodgrass was Chief Administrative Officer of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President of USG Corporation. Mr. Snodgrass was elected as an officer effective October 20, 2000. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Strobel was Vice Chairman of ComEd; Vice Chairman of PECO; Executive Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd and Unicom; Senior Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd. Ms. Strobel was elected as an officer effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Young was President of Exelon Power; Senior Vice President of Sierra Pacific Resources Corporation; President of Avalon Consulting; and Executive Vice President of Southern Generation. Mr. Young was elected as an officer effective March 3, 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Credit Acceptance Corporation; Vice President, Controller of Kmart Corporation; Divisional Vice President, Strategic Planning and Financial Reporting of Kmart Corporation; and Assistant Treasurer of Kmart Corporation. Mr. Hilzinger was elected as an officer effective April 15, 2002. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Gillis was Senior Vice President of Exelon; President of Business Services Company; Chief Financial Officer of Exelon; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Unicom Corporation. Ms. Gillis was elected as an officer effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mitchell was Vice President and Treasurer of Exelon; and Vice President, Treasury and Evaluation, and Treasurer of PECO. Mr. Mitchell was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. OBrien was Executive Vice President of PECO; Vice President of Operations of PECO; Director of Transmission and Substations of PECO; and Director of BucksMont Region of PECO. Mr. OBrien was elected as an officer effective January 1, 2001. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Crane was Vice President for Exelon Nuclear; and Vice President for BWR Operations of ComEd. Mr. Crane was elected as an officer effective December 27, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Schiavoni was Vice President of Operations; and Vice President of Northeast Operations of Exelon Power. Mr. Schiavoni was elected as an officer effective September 8, 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Veurink was a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Veurink was elected as an officer effective January 5, 2004. 33 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Energy Delivery The electric substations and a portion of the transmission rights of way are located on property owned by ComEd and PECO. A significant portion of the electric transmission and distribution facilities is located over or under highways, streets, other public places or property owned by others, for which permits, grants, easements or licenses, deemed satisfactory by ComEd and PECO but without examination of underlying land titles, have been obtained. Transmission and Distribution Energy Deliverys higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2004 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles ComEd 765,000 90 345,000 2,600 138,000 2,866 69,000 149 PECO 500,000 188 (a) 220,000 541 132,000 156 66,000 153 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership of 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership of 151 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,700 circuit miles of overhead lines and 32,900 cable miles of underground lines. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,150 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,389 cable miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2004: Pipeline Miles Transmission 31 Distribution 6,457 Service piping 5,282 Total 11,770 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania which has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. Mortgages The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. 34 The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first mortgage bonds are issued. Insurance ComEd and PECO maintain property insurance against loss or damage to Energy Deliverys properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd and PECO are self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd or PECO. Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2004. The table does not include properties held by equity method investments: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type Primary Dispatch Type (f) NetGeneration (b)Capacity (MW) Nuclear (c) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,363 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,030 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,742 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,309 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,131 (d) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,121 (d) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 969 (d) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,751 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Batavia Batavia, NY 1 50.00 Gas Intermediate 26 (e) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (d) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Base load 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Base load 581 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 1, 2, 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 4 Gas Peaking 1,041 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 400 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 358 (d) Independence Oswego, NY 1 50.00 Gas Base load 514 (e) Massena Massena, NY 1 50.00 Oil/Gas Intermediate 34 (e) Mountain Creek 2, 3, 6, 7 Dallas, TX 4 Gas Peaking 343 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 550 New Boston 1 South Boston, MA 1 Gas Intermediate 353 Ogdensburg Ogdensburg, NY 1 50.00 Oil/Gas Intermediate 36 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Sterling Sherrill, NY 1 50.00 Gas Intermediate 28 (e) Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (d) 5,983 (continued on next page) 35 Station (continued) Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type Primary Dispatch Type (f) NetGeneration (b)Capacity (MW) Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 384 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 30 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 160 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil Peaking 110 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Gas Peaking 13 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 71.00 Gas Peaking 222 (d) Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,376 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co. MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 536 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,072 Allegheny Ford City, PA 4 50.00 Hydroelectric Intermediate 25 (e) 1,633 Total 138 25,756 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (c) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (d) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. (e) Properties are owned by Sithe. Sithe was consolidated by Generation in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46 R) and capacity is shown at Generations percentage of ownership as of December 31, 2004. See Note 3 of Exelons and Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to Sithe. As of January 31, 2005, Generation no longer holds an interest in Sithe. See Note 25 of Exelons and Note 20 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale of the investment in Sithe. (f) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the day time higher load hours, and consequently produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units are plants that usually house low efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels, or pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. 36 The net generating capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the property deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ComEd Retail Rate Law. In 1996, three developers of non utility generating facilities filed litigation against various Illinois officials claiming that the enforcement against those facilities of an amendment to Illinois law removing the entitlement of those facilities to state subsidized payments for electricity sold to ComEd after March 15, 1996 violated their rights under Federal and state constitutions. The developers also filed suit against ComEd for a declaratory judgment that their rights under their contracts with ComEd were not affected by the amendment and for breach of contract. On November 25, 2002, the court granted the developers motions for summary judgment. The judge also entered a permanent injunction enjoining ComEd from refusing to pay the retail rate on the grounds of the amendment and Illinois from denying ComEd a tax credit on account of such purchases. On March 9, 2004, the Illinois Appellate Court reversed the trial court. The Appellate Court held that the 1996 law does apply to the developers facilities and, therefore, they are not entitled to subsidized payments. The Court expressly ruled that the breach of contract claims against ComEd are dismissed with prejudice. Two of the developers sought review of the Appellate Courts decision by the Illinois Supreme Court. On May 26, 2004, the Supreme Court declined to hear the earlier filed of the two appeals. On October 6, 2004, the Supreme Court declined to hear the final appeal. The time for further appeals has now passed. Related claims remain pending in the trial court. PECO and Generation Real Estate Tax Appeals. PECO and Generation each have been challenging real estate taxes assessed on nuclear plants. PECO is involved in litigation in which it is contesting taxes assessed in 1997 under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Realty Tax Act of March 4, 1971, as amended (PURTA), and has appealed local real estate assessments for 1998 and 1999 on the Limerick Generating Station (Montgomery County, PA) (Limerick) and Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station (York County, PA) (Peach Bottom). Generation is involved in real estate tax appeals for 2000 through 2004, also regarding the valuation of its Limerick and Peach Bottom plants and Quad Cities Station (Rock Island County, IL), Three Mile Island Nuclear Station (Dauphin County, PA) and Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station (Forked River, NJ). Generation Cotter Corporation Litigation. During 1989 and 1991, actions were brought in Federal and state courts in Colorado against ComEd and its subsidiary, Cotter, seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief based on allegations that Cotter permitted radioactive and other hazardous material to be released from its mill into areas owned or occupied by the plaintiffs, resulting in property damage and potential adverse health effects. On February 18, 2000, ComEd sold Cotter to an unaffiliated third party. As part of the sale, ComEd agreed to indemnify Cotter for any liability incurred by Cotter as a result of these actions. In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, the responsibility to indemnify Cotter for any liability related to these matters was transferred by ComEd to Generation. 37 Several of the actions resulted in nominal jury verdicts or were settled or dismissed. One action resulted in an award for the plaintiffs of a more substantial amount, but was reversed on April 22, 2003 by the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals and remanded for retrial. An appeal by the plaintiffs to the United States Supreme Court was denied on November 10, 2003. In October 2004, a settlement of the claims of all Cotter plaintiffs was reached and approved by the Federal District Court in Colorado. This settlement amount approximated Generations reserve for this matter. Settlements with the two primary Cotter insurers were also concluded, under which they paid Generation approximately $20 million, which covered the amount previously reserved as well as certain other costs incurred by Generation related to this matter. Neither of these settlements affects the environmental liability associated with the West Lake Landfill. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Environmental Regulation. General Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are involved in various other litigation matters that are being defended and handled in the ordinary course of business. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation maintain accruals for such costs that are probable of being incurred and subject to reasonable estimation. The ultimate outcomes of such matters, as well as the matters discussed above, are uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on their respective financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation None. 38 PART II (Dollars in million except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. See Note 24 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the high and low sales prices, closing prices and dividends for Exelons common stock for 2004 and 2003 on a per share basis. As of January 31, 2005, there were 664,807,122 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 166,575 shareholders of common stock of record. On January 27, 2004, the Exelon Board of Directors approved a 2 for 1 stock split of Exelons common stock. The distribution date was May 5, 2004. The authorized common stock was increased from 600,000,000 shares with no par value to 1,200,000,000 shares with no par value. The share and per share amounts related to Exelon included in this Form 10 K have been adjusted for all periods presented to reflect the stock split. The attached table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Exelon of its common stock. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 1 October 31, 2004 11,396 $ 36.85 (b ) November 1 November 30, 2004 220,287 40.47 (b ) December 1 December 31, 2004 1,750 41.87 (b ) Total 233,433 40.31 (b ) (a) Shares other than those purchased as a part of a publicly announced plan primarily represent restricted shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares and shares repurchased from an executive upon retirement from Exelon. (b) In April 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program that allows Exelon to repurchase shares of its common stock on a periodic basis in the open market. The share repurchase program is intended to mitigate, in part, the dilutive effect of shares issued under Exelons employee stock option plan and Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The aggregate shares of common stock repurchased pursuant to the program cannot exceed the economic benefit received after January 1, 2004 due to stock option exercises and share purchases pursuant to Exelons ESPP. The economic benefit consists of direct cash proceeds from purchases of stock and tax benefits associated with exercises of stock options. The share repurchase program has no specified limit and no specified termination date. ComEd As of January 31, 2005, there were outstanding 127,016,502 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At January 31, 2005, in addition to Exelon, there were 275 holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. 39 PECO As of January 31, 2005, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Generation As of January 31, 2005, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at ComEd, PECO or Generation may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2004, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.3 billion, which includes ComEds retained earnings of $1,102 million (all of which had been appropriated for future dividends), PECOs retained earnings of $607 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $761 million. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends paid during 2004 and 2003: 2004 2003 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.400 $ 0.305 $ 0.275 $ 0.275 $ 0.250 $ 0.250 $ 0.230 $ 0.230 The following table sets forth ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments and Generations quarterly distributions: 2004 2003 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter ComEd $ 137 $ 113 $ 104 $ 103 $ 95 $ 95 $ 90 $ 121 PECO 115 96 90 90 79 79 75 90 Generation 335 61 55 54 73 71 45 On January 27, 2004, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.275 per share on Exelons common stock. On July 27, 2004, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.305 per share on Exelons common stock and approved a policy of targeting a dividend payout ratio of 50 to 60% of ongoing earnings and authorized a plan to achieve that level of payout for the full year of 2005. The actual dividend payout rate depends on Exelon achieving its objectives, including meeting cash flow targets and strengthening its balance sheet. On October 19, 2004 and January 25, 2005, the Exelon Board of Directors approved quarterly dividends of $0.40 per share, reflecting an annual dividend of $1.60 per share. The Board of Directors must approve the dividends each quarter after review of Exelons financial condition at that time. The Merger Agreement between Exelon and PSEG provides that, subject to applicable law and the fiduciary duties of its board of directors, Exelon will increase its quarterly dividend so that the first 40 dividend paid after completion of the Merger is an amount equal, on an exchange ratio adjusted basis, to the dividend PSEG shareholders received in the quarter immediately prior to completion of the Merger, up to a maximum of $0.47 per share of Exelon common stock (the lesser of $0.47 and the amount required to equal PSEGs dividend on an exchange ratio adjusted basis being referred to as the threshold amount (threshold amount)). Exelon has agreed that as close to 30 days prior to the anticipated closing of the Merger as reasonably practicable, it will notify PSEG of what it believes its first quarterly dividend following completion of the Merger will be. If that dividend is less than the threshold amount, PSEG may make a one time special cash dividend to its shareholders equal to the amount of the difference between the dividend Exelon has informed PSEG it will pay and the threshold amount on an exchange ratio adjusted basis. ComEd may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities which were issued to ComEd Financing II and ComEd Financing III (the Financing Trusts); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of the Financing Trusts; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities). As of December 31, 2004, ComEd had appropriated $1,102 million of retained earnings for future dividend payments. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2004, such capital was $2.8 billion and amounted to about 32 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PEC L.P. or PECO Trust IV; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities). ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. 41 Results for 2000 reflect the effects of the merger of Exelon Corporation, Unicom and PECO on October 20, 2000. That merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting with PECO as the acquiring company. Accordingly, financial results for 2000 consist of PECOs results for 2000 and Unicoms results after October 20, 2000. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 14,515 $ 15,812 $ 14,955 $ 14,918 $ 7,499 Operating income 3,433 2,277 3,299 3,362 1,527 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 1,841 $ 793 $ 1,670 $ 1,416 $ 562 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) 23 112 (230 ) 12 24 Net income $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 1,440 $ 1,428 $ 586 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 2.75 $ 1.21 $ 2.57 $ 2.19 $ 1.38 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) 0.03 0.17 (0.35 ) 0.02 0.06 Net income $ 2.78 $ 1.38 $ 2.22 $ 2.21 $ 1.44 Dividends per common share $ 1.26 $ 0.96 $ 0.88 $ 0.91 $ 0.46 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 669 657 649 645 408 December 31, in millions 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,926 $ 4,561 $ 4,125 $ 3,735 $ 4,151 Property, plant and equipment, net 21,482 20,630 17,957 14,665 15,914 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,790 5,226 5,546 5,774 6,045 Goodwill 4,705 4,719 4,992 5,335 5,186 Other deferred debits and other assets 7,867 6,800 5,249 5,460 5,378 Total assets $ 42,770 $ 41,936 $ 37,869 $ 34,969 $ 36,674 Current liabilities $ 4,882 $ 5,720 $ 5,874 $ 4,370 $ 4,993 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (a) 12,148 13,489 13,127 12,879 12,958 Regulatory liabilities 2,204 1,891 486 225 1,888 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 13,984 12,246 9,968 8,749 8,959 Minority interest 42 77 31 31 Preferred securities of subsidiaries (a) 87 87 595 613 630 Shareholders equity 9,423 8,503 7,742 8,102 7,215 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 42,770 $ 41,936 $ 37,869 $ 34,969 $ 36,674 (a) The mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of ComEd and PECO were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003 in accordance with FIN 46 R and FIN 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46). 42 ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. ComEd was the principal subsidiary of Unicom prior to the merger with Exelon on October 20, 2000. The merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with GAAP. The effects of the purchase method were reflected in the consolidated financial statements of ComEd as of October 20, 2000. Accordingly, ComEds consolidated financial statements presented for the period after that merger reflect a new basis of accounting. The information for the year ended 2000 is presented for the periods before and after the merger. For the Years Ended December 31, Oct. 20 Dec. 31 2000 Jan. 1 Oct. 19 2000 (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ 6,206 $ 1,310 $ 5,702 Operating income 1,617 1,567 1,766 1,594 338 1,048 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 676 $ 702 $ 790 $ 607 $ 133 $ 599 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) 5 Net income $ 676 $ 707 $ 790 $ 607 $ 133 $ 599 December 31, (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,196 $ 1,313 $ 1,049 $ 1,025 $ 2,172 Property, plant and equipment, net 9,463 9,096 8,689 8,243 10,655 Goodwill, net 4,705 4,719 4,916 4,902 4,766 Other deferred debits and other assets 2,077 2,837 1,662 1,682 4,493 Total assets $ 17,441 $ 17,965 $ 16,316 $ 15,852 $ 22,086 Current liabilities $ 1,764 $ 1,557 $ 2,023 $ 1,797 $ 1,723 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (a) 4,282 5,887 5,268 5,850 6,882 Regulatory liabilities 2,204 1,891 486 225 1,888 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,451 2,288 2,451 2,568 5,082 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (a) 330 329 328 Shareholders equity 6,740 6,342 5,758 5,083 6,183 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 17,441 $ 17,965 $ 16,316 $ 15,852 $ 22,086 (a) Due to the adoption of FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts as of December 31, 2003. 43 PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 4,487 $ 4,388 $ 4,333 $ 3,965 $ 5,950 Operating income 1,014 1,056 1,093 999 1,222 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 $ 425 $ 483 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) 24 Net income $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 $ 425 $ 507 Net income on common stock $ 452 $ 468 $ 478 $ 415 $ 497 December 31, (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 773 $ 696 $ 927 $ 813 $ 1,779 Property, plant and equipment, net 4,329 4,256 4,159 4,039 5,138 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,790 5,226 5,546 5,774 6,046 Other deferred debits and other assets 241 232 88 112 1,813 Total assets $ 10,133 $ 10,410 $ 10,720 $ 10,738 $ 14,776 Current liabilities $ 794 $ 713 $ 1,538 $ 1,335 $ 2,974 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (a) 4,628 5,239 4,951 5,438 6,002 Deferred credits and other liabilities 3,313 3,442 3,342 3,358 3,860 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (a) 128 128 128 Mandatorily redeemable preferred stock 19 37 Shareholders equity 1,398 1,016 761 460 1,775 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 10,133 $ 10,410 $ 10,720 $ 10,738 $ 14,776 (a) Due to the adoptions of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003. 44 Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. The consolidated financial statements of Generation as of December 31, 2000 and for the year then ended present the financial position, results of operations and net cash flows of the generation related business of Exelon prior to its corporate restructuring on January 1, 2001. The results of operations for Exelon Energy Company are not included in periods prior to 2004. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 7,938 $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 6,826 $ 3,274 Operating income (loss) 1,030 (115 ) 509 872 441 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 641 $ (241 ) $ 387 $ 512 $ 260 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) 32 108 13 12 Net income (loss) $ 673 $ (133 ) $ 400 $ 524 $ 260 December 31, (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,321 $ 2,438 $ 1,805 $ 1,435 $ 1,793 Property, plant and equipment, net 7,536 7,106 4,698 2,003 1,727 Deferred debits and other assets 6,581 5,105 4,402 4,700 4,742 Total assets $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 $ 8,138 $ 8,262 Current liabilities $ 2,416 $ 3,553 $ 2,594 $ 1,097 $ 2,176 Long term debt 2,583 1,649 2,132 1,021 205 Deferred credits and other liabilities 8,356 6,488 3,226 3,212 3,271 Minority interest 44 3 54 Members equity 3,039 2,956 2,899 2,808 2,610 Total liabilities and members equity $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 $ 8,138 $ 8,262 45 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation The Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncement sections presented below indicate the registrant or registrants to which each policy, estimate or accounting standard is applicable. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Registrants Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Nuclear Decommissioning (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate the fair value of its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that fair value, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model considering multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of costs and the timing of decommissioning activities validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Cost Escalation Studies. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost levels and various timing scenarios. The probability of various timing scenarios incorporate the factors of current license lives, anticipated license renewals and the timing of DOE acceptance for disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation recorded and could affect future updates to the decommissioning obligation to be recorded in the consolidated financial statements. For example, the 20 year average cost escalation rates used in the current ARO calculation approximate 3% to 4%. A uniform increase in these escalation rates of 25 basis points would increase the total ARO recorded by Exelon by 46 approximately 11% or more than $400 million. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on an ongoing basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash flows. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Note 1 and Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The FASB has issued an exposure draft of proposed interpretations of SFAS No. 143. The exposure draft addresses the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations. The proposed guidance is not anticipated to have any impact on Generations asset retirement obligations for nuclear decommissioning but may result in the recording of liabilities at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation for conditional legal obligations meeting the scope of the interpretation. Asset Impairments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2004, which relates entirely to the goodwill recorded upon the acquisition of ComEd. Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires managements judgments, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. Exelon and ComEd performed their annual assessments of goodwill impairment as of November 1, 2004 and determined that goodwill was not impaired. Exelon assesses goodwill impairment at its Energy Delivery reporting unit; accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge at ComEd may not necessarily affect Exelons results of operations as the goodwill impairment test for Exelon considers the cash flows of the entire consolidated Energy Delivery business segment, which includes both ComEd and PECO. In the assessments, Exelon and ComEd estimated the fair value of the Energy Delivery and ComEd reporting units using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The fair value determination is dependent on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, the capital structures of Energy Delivery and ComEd, market prices for power, post 2006 rate regulatory structures, operating and capital expenditure requirements, and other factors. Changes in assumptions regarding these variables or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of approximately 10% in Energy Deliverys and ComEds expected discounted cash flows would result in no impairment at Exelon, but an estimated impairment of goodwill of approximately $1.7 billion at ComEd. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power and costs of fuel. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. 47 Investments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had approximately $6,066 million, $91 million, $109 million and $5,365 million, respectively, of investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2004. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation consider investments to be impaired when a decline in fair value below cost is judged to be other than temporary. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, they evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, as well as their intent and ability to hold the investment. The Registrants also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to essentially all ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC employees and certain Enterprises employees. See Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for Exelons defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation, and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon utilizes assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increases and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.00% in 2004 and 2003 compared to 9.50% for 2002. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs ranged from 8.33% to 8.35% in 2004 compared to 8.40% in 2003 and 8.80% for 2002. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index was used as the basis in selecting the discount rate for determining the plan obligations, using 5.75%, 6.25% and 6.75% at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The reduction in the discount rate is due to the decline in Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index in 2004 and 2003. 48 The following tables illustrate the effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above: Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2004 Impact on Pension Liability at December 31, 2004 Impact on 2005 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $626 $535 $40 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 35 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2004 Impact on Postretirement Benefit Liability at December 31, 2004 Impact on 2005 Postretirement Benefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 174 $ $ 17 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 5 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons postretirement benefit plans. To estimate the 2004 cost, Exelon assumed a health care cost trend rate of 10%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 4.5% in 2011, compared to the 2003 assumption of 8.5%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 4.5% in 2008. To estimate the 2005 cost, Exelon will assume a health care cost trend rate of 9%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 5% in 2010. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates in 2004 would have the following effects: Effect of a one percentage point increase in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ 34 on postretirement benefit obligation $ 327 Effect of a one percentage point decrease in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ (28 ) on postretirement benefit obligation $ (276 ) The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during Exelons annual review process and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension amounts and funding requirements could also change. In 2004, Exelon incurred approximately $294 million in costs associated with its pension and postretirement benefit plans, including curtailment and settlement costs of $24 million. Although 2005 pension and postretirement benefit costs will depend on market conditions, Exelon believes that its pension and postretirement benefit costs will decrease in 2005 due to an anticipated contribution of approximately $2 billion to the pension plans, partially offset by an increase in postretirement benefit costs due to a change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate. Depending on the timing of the pension contribution, the estimated net decrease in 2005 pension and postretirement benefit costs could range from approximately $30 million to approximately $120 million. If the contribution is made on July 1, 2005, the estimated net decrease in 2005 pension and postretirement benefit cost would be approximately $75 million. 49 Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71), which requires Exelon, ComEd and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements as a one time extraordinary item and through impacts on continuing operations. See Note 5 and Note 2 of Exelons and ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively, for further information regarding regulatory issues. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. As of December 31, 2004, Exelon and PECO had recorded $4.8 billion of net regulatory assets within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2004, Exelon and ComEd had recorded $2.2 billion of net regulatory liabilities within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 21 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction where they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. The electric businesses of both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Because the current rates include the recovery of existing regulatory assets and liabilities and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow Exelon, ComEd and PECO to earn a reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the Federal level and in the states where ComEd and PECO do business but is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could limit the ability to pay dividends under PUHCA and state law. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants enter into derivatives to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation utilizes derivatives with respect to energy transactions to manage the utilization of its available generating capability and provisions of wholesale energy to its affiliates. Generation also utilizes energy option contracts and energy financial swap arrangements to limit the 50 market price risk associated with forward energy commodity contracts. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for trading purposes. All of the Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133). Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Derivatives recorded at fair value on the balance sheet are presented as current or noncurrent mark to market derivative assets or liabilities. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings as hedged transaction occur. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon the assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery of the underlying item. This assessment is based primarily on internal models that forecast customer demand and electricity and gas supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. Significant changes in these assumptions could result in these contracts not qualifying for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. Energy Contracts. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133) hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants use external dealer prices or internal valuation models that utilize assumptions of available market pricing curves. 51 Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, depreciation estimates are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation charged to the financial statements. In 2001, Generation extended the estimated service lives of certain nuclear fuel generating facilities based upon Generations intent to apply for license renewals for these facilities. While Generation expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for these facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties have a significant effect on their financial statements. The accounting for taxation and environmental costs are further discussed below. Taxation The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and ongoing operations to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, use and employment related taxes, including taxes that are subject to ongoing appeals. Judgments include estimating reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that they have taken. The Registrants must also assess their ability to generate capital gains in future periods to realize tax benefits associated with capital losses previously generated or expected to be generated in future periods. Capital losses may be deducted only to the extent of capital gains realized during the year of the loss or during the three prior or five succeeding years. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. Generation has recorded valuation allowances against certain deferred assets associated with capital losses due to the consolidation of Sithe. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2004 reflect the probable expected outcome of these tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, and SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Environmental Costs As of December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $124 million, $61 million, $47 million and $16 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where 52 timing and costs of expenditures can be reliably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts represent $96 million, $55 million and $41 million, respectively, of the total accrued for Exelon, ComEd and PECO. Where timing and amounts cannot be reliably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $28 million, $6 million, $6 million and $16 million, respectively, of the total accrued liabilities for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology, regulations or the requirements of local governmental authorities. Severance Accounting (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with the Registrants and compensation level. The Registrants accrue severance benefits that are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in estimating severance charges is the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. The Registrants base their estimates on their current plans and ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate their businesses. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation recorded severance charges of $32 million, $10 million, $3 million and $2 million, respectively, in 2004 and severance charges of $135 million, $61 million, $16 million and $38 million, respectively, in 2003, related to personnel reductions. The Registrants may incur further severance costs if they identify additional positions to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Energy Deliverys and Exelon Energy Companys energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable of ComEd, PECO, and Generation included estimates of $275 million, $143 million, and $64 million, respectively, for unbilled revenue as of December 31, 2004 as a result of unread meters at ComEd, PECO and Exelon Energy Company. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding Exelon Energy Company, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Customer accounts receivable of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2004 include unbilled energy revenues of $385 million related to unbilled energy sales of Generation. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Accounting for Ownership Interests in Variable Interest Entities (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) At December 31, 2004, Exelon, through Generation, had a 50% interest in Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Exelon and Generation consolidated Sithe within their financial statements as of 53 March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. Sithes total assets and total liabilities as of December 31, 2004 were $1,356 million and $1,289 million, respectively. As required by FIN 46 R, upon the occurrence of a future triggering event, such as a change in ownership, the Registrant would reassess their investments to determine if they continue to qualify as the primary beneficiary. See Notes 3 and 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of Generations interest in Sithe, which was completed on January 31, 2005. Subsequent to the sale, Sithe will no longer be consolidated within the financial statements of Exelon or Generation. In addition to Sithe, the Registrants reviewed other entities with which they have business relationships to determine if those entities were variable interest entities that should be consolidated under FIN 46 R and concluded that those entities should not be consolidated within the financial statements. 54 Exelon Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $1,864 million in 2004 as compared to $905 million in 2003 and diluted earnings per average common share were $2.78 for 2004 as compared to $1.38 for 2003, primarily as a result of increased net income at Generation, lower losses at Enterprises and several significant charges in 2003 that did not recur in 2004, partially offset by decreased net income at Energy Delivery. Key drivers included the following: Increased net income at Generation Generation provided net income of $673 million in 2004 compared to a net loss of $151 million in 2003. The increase in Generations net income reflects improved wholesale prices in 2004, the inclusion of a full year of AmerGens results in 2004, and impairment charges in 2003 of $945 million and $255 million (before income taxes) related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating and Generations investment in Sithe, respectively. Generations 2004 income also includes an after tax gain of $52 million on the sale of Boston Generating during the second quarter of 2004. See further discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation. Decreased losses at Enterprises Enterprises reported a net loss of $22 million in 2004 compared to a net loss of $118 million in 2003. Enterprises comparative results reflect net pre tax gains of $41 million recorded in 2004 related to the dispositions of certain businesses and investments, as well as investment impairment charges of $54 million recorded in 2003. See further discussion under Investment Strategy below and in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Exelon Corporation Results of Operations Enterprises. Favorable tax effects from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities increased 2004 after tax earnings by $65 million as compared to 2003. Decreased net income at Energy Delivery Energy Delivery provided net income of $1,128 million in 2004 compared to $1,175 million in 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to unfavorable weather conditions and charges recorded in connection with the early retirement of debt, partially offset by growth in Energy Deliverys retail customer base and reduced severance and other charges in 2004 as compared to 2003. See further discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Energy Delivery. Investment Strategy. In 2004, Exelon continued to follow a disciplined approach to investing to maximize earnings and cash flows from its assets and businesses, while selling those that do not meet its strategic goals. Highlights from 2004 include the following: Proposed Merger with PSEG On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into the Merger Agreement with PSEG, the holding company for an electric and gas utility company primarily located and serving customers in New Jersey, whereby PSEG will be merged with and into Exelon. Under the Merger Agreement, each share of PSEG common stock will be converted into 1.225 shares of Exelon common stock. As of December 31, 2004, PSEGs market capitalization was over $12 billion. Additionally, PSEG, on a consolidated basis, has approximately $14 billion of outstanding debt which is currently anticipated to become part of Exelons consolidated debt. The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Exelon and PSEG, and further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, (i) Exelon may be required to pay PSEG a termination fee of $400 million plus 55 PSEGs transaction expenses up to $40 million and (ii) PSEG may be required to pay Exelon a termination fee of $400 million plus Exelons transaction expenses up to $40 million. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies boards of directors but is contingent upon, among other things, the approval by shareholders of both companies, antitrust clearance and a number of regulatory approvals or reviews by federal and state energy authorities. On February 4, 2005, Exelon and PSEG filed for approval of the merger with the FERC, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) and the PUC. Exelon also filed a notice of the Merger with the ICC. Exelon anticipates that the Merger will close within 12 months to 15 months after the announcement of the Merger Agreement in December 2004, subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals which cannot be assured. OSC with PSEG Concurrent with the Merger Agreement, Generation entered into the OSC with PSEG Nuclear, LLC which commenced on January 17, 2005 relating to the operation of the Salem and Hope Creek nuclear generating stations. The OSC provides for Generation to provide a chief nuclear officer and other key personnel to oversee daily plant operations at the Hope Creek and Salem nuclear generating stations and to implement the Exelon operating model. PSEG Nuclear, LLC will continue as the license holder with exclusive legal authority to operate and maintain the plants, will retain responsibility for management oversight and will have full authority with respect to the marketing of its share of the output from the facilities. Boston Generating On May 25, 2004, Generation completed the sale, transfer and assignment of ownership of its indirect wholly owned subsidiary Boston Generating, which owns directly or indirectly the companies that own Mystic 4 7, Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River generating facilities, to a special purpose entity owned by the lenders under Boston Generatings $1.25 billion credit facility, resulting in an after tax gain of $52 million. On September 1, 2004, Generation completed the transfer of plant operations and power marketing arrangements to the lenders special purpose entity and its contractors under Boston Generatings credit facility. Sithe On September 29, 2004, Generation exercised its call option and entered into an agreement to acquire Reservoirs 50% interest in Sithe for $97 million and, on November 1, 2004, Generation entered into an agreement to sell its anticipated 100% interest in Sithe to Dynegy Inc. for $135 million in cash. Generation closed on the call exercise and the sale of the resulting 100% interest in Sithe on January 31, 2005. The sale did not include Sithe International, Inc. (Sithe International), which was sold to a subsidiary of Generation on October 13, 2004. Enterprises Exelon continued its divestiture strategy for Enterprises by selling or winding down substantially all components of Enterprises. At December 31, 2004, Enterprises remaining assets totaled approximately $274 million in comparison to $697 million at December 31, 2003. Enterprises expects to receive aggregate proceeds of $268 million and recorded a net pre tax gain of $41 million related to the dispositions of assets and investments in 2004. Financing Activities. During 2004, Exelon substantially strengthened its balance sheet and met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources, including capital markets, and through bank borrowings. Highlights from 2004 include the following: ComEd retired $1.2 billion of its outstanding debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity, pursuant to an accelerated liability management plan. In connection with these retirements, ComEd recorded pre tax charges totaling $130 million related to debt prepayment premiums and the write off of previously deferred debt financing fees. 56 In addition to the accelerated liability management plan, payments of approximately $728 million were made for the purpose of retiring PECO and ComEd transition trust long term debt and approximately $176 million of other net long term debt during 2004. Exelon replaced its $750 million 364 day unsecured revolving credit agreement with a $1 billion five year facility and reduced its $750 million three year facility to $500 million. Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program under which Exelon purchased common stock, now held as treasury shares, totaling $75 million during 2004. Exelons Board of Directors approved a policy of targeting a dividend payout ratio of 50% to 60% of ongoing earnings, and Exelon expects a dividend payout in that range for the full year of 2005. The actual dividend payout rate depends on Exelon achieving its objectives, including meeting cash flow targets and strengthening its balance sheet. On October 29, 2004, the Exelon Board of Directors approved an increased quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share, which was consistent with the dividend policy approved in 2004. The Board of Directors must approve the dividends each quarter after review of Exelons financial condition at the time, and there can be no guarantees that this targeted dividend payout ratio will be achieved. Regulatory Developments PJM Integration. On May 1, 2004, ComEd fully integrated its transmission facilities into PJM. PECOs and ComEds membership in PJM supports Exelons commitment to competitive wholesale electric markets and will provide Exelon the benefits of more transparent, liquid and competitive markets for the sale and purchase of electric energy and capacity. Upon joining PJM, ComEd began incurring administrative fees, which are expected to approximate $25 million annually. Exelon believes such costs will ultimately be offset by the benefits of full access to a wholesale competitive marketplace and increased revenue requirements, particularly after ComEds regulatory transition period ends in 2006; however, changes in market dynamics could affect the ultimate financial impact on Exelon. Outlook for 2005 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: Shorter Term: Weather conditions, wholesale market prices of electricity, fuel costs, interest rates, successful implementation of operational improvement initiatives and Exelons ability to generate electricity at low costs all affect Exelons operating revenues and related costs. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, operating revenues at Exelon generally will be favorably affected. Operating revenues will also generally be favorably affected by increases in wholesale market prices. Longer Term: The proposed merger with PSEG is expected to have a significant impact on Exelons results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See further discussion above at Proposed Merger with PSEG and in ITEM 1. Business Proposed Merger with PSEG. Following is a discussion of the other non merger related items that will have a longer term impact on Exelon. Restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, with continuing debate on RTO and standard market platform issues, and in many states on the post transition format. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (e.g., California); some states are adjusting current transition plans (e.g., Ohio); and the states of Illinois (by 2007) and Pennsylvania (by 2011) are considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. Exelon will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations, controlling costs and providing a fair return to its investors. 57 As Exelon looks toward the end of the restructuring transition periods and related rate freezes or caps in Illinois and Pennsylvania, Exelon will also continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. Exelon will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements Exelon has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. ComEd and PECO will also work to ensure that ComEds and PECOs rates are adequate to cover their costs of obtaining electric power and energy from their suppliers, which could include Generation, for the costs associated with procuring full requirements power given Energy Deliverys POLR obligations. ComEd intends to make various filings during 2005 to begin the process to establish rates for the post transition period. As in the past, by working together with all interested parties, Exelon believes it can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers; however, if Exelon is unsuccessful, its results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected after the transition periods. Generations financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the market changes in Illinois and Pennsylvania discussed above. While Generation has significantly hedged its market exposure in the short term, over the long term, Generations results will be affected by long term changes in the market prices of power and fuel caused by supply and demand forces and environmental regulations. Generating companies must also work with regulators to ensure that a viable capacity market exists and that new units will be constructed in a timely manner to meet the growing demand for power. On the operating side, to meet Exelons financial goals, Generations nuclear units must continue their superior performance while controlling costs despite inflationary pressures and increasing security costs. Exelons current plans are based on moderate kilowatthour sales growth (1% to 2%) from their current levels and stable wholesale power markets. Continued cost reduction initiatives are important to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. Despite these challenges, Exelons diverse mix of generation (nuclear, coal, purchased power, natural gas, hydroelectric, wind and other renewables), linked to a stable base of over five million customers, will provide a solid platform from which it will strive to meet these challenges. 58 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2004 2003 Favorable (unfavorable) variance Operating revenues $ 14,515 $ 15,812 $ (1,297 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 5,082 6,375 1,293 Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Operating and maintenance expense 3,976 4,508 532 Depreciation and amortization expense 1,305 1,126 (179 ) Operating income 3,433 2,277 1,156 Other income and deductions (921 ) (1,148 ) 227 Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,512 1,129 1,383 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,841 793 1,048 Income taxes 692 331 (361 ) Net income 1,864 905 959 Diluted earnings per share 2.78 1.38 1.40 Net Income. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million, net of income taxes, for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million, net of income taxes, related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). Net income for 2003 reflects income of $112 million, net of income taxes, for the adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoptions of FIN 46 R, EITF 03 16 and SFAS No. 143. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased primarily due to decreased revenues at Enterprises due to the sale of the majority of its businesses since the third quarter of 2003, the sale of Boston Generating and Generations adoption of EITF No. 03 11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and Not Held for Trading Purposes as Defined in EITF Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 03 11) in the first quarter of 2004, which changed the presentation of certain power transactions and decreased 2004 operating revenues by $980 million. The adoption of EITF 03 11 had no impact on net income. Operating revenues were favorably affected by Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen and the consolidation of Sithe. Operating revenues were also favorably affected by Energy Deliverys increased volume growth and transmission revenues collected from PJM, partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice initiatives. See further discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased primarily due to Generations adoption of EITF 03 11 during 2004 which resulted in a decrease in purchased power expense and fuel expense of $980 million. In addition, purchased power decreased due to Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in December 2003, which was only partially offset by an increase in fuel expense, and the sale of Boston Generating. Purchased power represented 24% of Generations total supply in 2004 compared to 37% in 2003. Purchased power 59 also decreased due to Energy Deliverys unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice initiatives, partially offset by volume growth and transmission costs paid to PJM. See further discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. Generation recorded a $945 million charge (before income taxes) during 2003 to impair the long lived assets of Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense decreased primarily as a result of decreased expenses at Enterprises due to the sale of the majority of its businesses since the third quarter of 2003 and decreased severance and severance related expenses, partially offset by increased expenses at Generation due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen and the consolidation of Sithe. Operating and maintenance expense increased $65 million due to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service at Energy Delivery and Generation, the acquisition of the remaining 50% in AmerGen in December 2003, the consolidation of Sithe and the recording and subsequent impairment of an asset retirement cost (ARC) at Generation in 2004. See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The increase also resulted from increased amortization expense due to investments made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004 in synthetic fuel producing facilities and increased competitive transition charge amortization at PECO. These increases were partially offset by reduced depreciation and amortization expense at Enterprises due to the sale of a majority of its businesses since the third quarter of 2003. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, the impairment of Boston Generatings long lived assets, operating and maintenance expense and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was primarily the result of increased taxes other than income in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due to the reduction of certain real estate tax accruals at PECO and Generation during 2003. Other Income and Deductions. Other income and deductions reflects interest expense of $905 million, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates of $153 million, debt retirement charges of $130 million (before income taxes) recorded at ComEd in 2004 associated with an accelerated liability management plan, impairment charges of $255 million (before income taxes) recorded during 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, an $85 million gain (before income taxes) on the 2004 sale of Boston Generating and a $35 million aggregate net gain on the sale of investments and assets of Thermal in 2004 (before income taxes and net of debt prepayment penalties). Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased by $186 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in December 2003, the deconsolidation of certain financing trusts during 2003 and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 27.5% for 2004 compared to 29.3% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. 60 Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2004 and 2003 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to Generation. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, was transferred to Generation. The 2003 information related to the Enterprises and Generation segments discussed below has been adjusted to reflect the transfer of Exelon Energy Company from the Enterprises segment to the Generation segment. Exelon Energy Companys 2003 results were as follows: Total revenues $ 834 Intersegment revenues 4 Operating revenue and purchased power from affiliates 209 Depreciation and amortization 2 Operating expenses 857 Interest expense 1 Loss before income taxes (29 ) Income taxes (11 ) Net loss (18 ) Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable (unfavorable) variance Energy Delivery $ 1,128 $ 1,170 $ (42 ) Generation 641 (259 ) 900 Enterprises (13 ) (117 ) 104 Corporate 85 (1 ) 86 Total $ 1,841 $ 793 $ 1,048 Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Energy Delivery $ 1,128 $ 1,175 $ (47 ) Generation 673 (151 ) 824 Enterprises (22 ) (118 ) 96 Corporate 85 (1 ) 86 Total $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 959 61 Results of Operations Energy Delivery 2004 2003 Favorable (Unfavorable) variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 10,290 $ 10,202 $ 88 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power and fuel expense 4,760 4,597 (163 ) Operating and maintenance 1,444 1,669 225 Depreciation and amortization 928 873 (55 ) Taxes other than income 527 440 (87 ) Total operating expense 7,659 7,579 (80 ) OPERATING INCOME 2,631 2,623 8 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (672 ) (747 ) 75 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (3 ) (39 ) 36 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (44 ) (44 ) Other, net (78 ) 51 (129 ) Total other income and deductions (797 ) (735 ) (62 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,834 1,888 (54 ) INCOME TAXES 706 718 12 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,128 1,170 (42 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 5 (5 ) NET INCOME $ 1,128 $ 1,175 $ (47 ) Net Income. Energy Deliverys net income in 2004 decreased primarily due to costs associated with ComEds accelerated retirement of long term debt, reflected in other income and deductions other, net, offset in part by lower interest expense. Operating income, while reflecting various changes in operating revenues and expenses, was relatively unchanged between periods. Operating Revenues. The changes in Energy Deliverys operating revenues for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Total increase (decrease) Volume $ 326 $ 3 $ 329 PJM transmission 149 149 Rate changes and mix (74 ) 111 37 Weather (176 ) (21 ) (197 ) Customer Choice (182 ) (182 ) T&O Charges (41 ) (41 ) Other (17 ) 10 (7 ) (Decrease) increase in operating revenues $ (15 ) $ 103 $ 88 Volume. Both ComEds and PECOs electric revenues increased as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. 62 PJM Transmission. Energy Deliverys transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM, partially offset by $15 million of lower transmission revenues and expenses at PECO. Rate Changes and Mix. Starting in ComEds June 2003 billing cycle, the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component decreased the collection of CTCs as compared to the respective prior year period. ComEds CTC revenues decreased by $135 million in 2004 as compared to 2003. This decrease was partially offset by increased wholesale market prices which increased energy revenue received under the ComEd PPO and by increased average rates paid by small and large commercial and industrial customers totaling $53 million. For 2004 and 2003, ComEd collected approximately $169 million and $304 million, respectively, of CTC revenue. As a result of increasing mitigation factors, changes in energy prices and the ability of certain customers to establish fixed, multi year CTC rates beginning in 2003, ComEd anticipates that this revenue source will range from $90 million to $110 million annually in 2005 and 2006. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Electric revenues increased $1 million at PECO as a result of a $20 million increase related to a scheduled phase out of merger related rate reductions, offset by a $19 million decrease reflecting a change in rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 as compared to 2003. Energy Deliverys gas revenues increased due to increases in rates through PUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003, December 1, 2003 and March 1, 2004. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet for 2004 was 33% higher than the rate in 2003. PECOs purchased gas cost rates were reduced effective December 1, 2004. Weather. Energy Deliverys electric and gas revenues were negatively affected by unfavorable weather conditions. Cooling degree days in the ComEd and PECO service territories were 12% lower and relatively unchanged, respectively, in 2004 as compared to 2003. Heating degree days were 6% and 5% lower in both the ComEd and PECO service territories, respectively, in 2004 as compared to 2003. Customer Choice. For 2004 and 2003, 28% and 25%, respectively, of energy delivered to Energy Deliverys retail customers was provided by an alternative electric supplier or under the ComEd PPO. The decrease in electric retail revenues attributable to customer choice included a decrease in revenues of $104 million from customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or under the ComEd PPO and a decrease in revenues of $78 million from customers in Pennsylvania being assigned to or selecting an alternative electric supplier. T&O Charges. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected through and out (T&O) charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. 63 Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Volume $ 163 $ (2 ) $ 161 PJM transmission 149 149 Prices 11 111 122 PJM administrative fees 15 15 Customer choice (165 ) (165 ) Weather (84 ) (15 ) (99 ) T&O Charges (22 ) (22 ) Other (13 ) 15 2 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 54 $ 109 $ 163 Volume. ComEds and PECOs purchased power and fuel expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. PJM Transmission. Energy Deliverys transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million in 2004 relative to 2003 due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM, partially offset by $15 million of lower transmission revenues and expenses at PECO. See Operating Revenues above. PJM Administrative Fees. ComEd fully integrated into PJM on May 1, 2004. Prices. Energy Deliverys purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to ComEds and PECOs PPAs with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer Choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to ComEds non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier and PECOs residential customers selecting or being assigned to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. Weather. Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to unfavorable weather conditions. T&O Charges. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected through and out (T&O) charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. 64 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance and severance related expenses $ (132 ) Charge recorded at ComEd in 2003 (a) (41 ) Payroll expense (b) (36 ) Incremental storm costs (21 ) Contractors (18 ) Automated meter reading system implementation costs at PECO in 2003 (16 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (13 ) FERC annual fees (c) (11 ) Environmental charges (10 ) Corporate allocations (d) 77 Other (4 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (225 ) (a) In 2003, ComEd reached an agreement with various Illinois retail market participants and other interested parties. (b) Energy Delivery had fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEd is no longer directly charged annual fees by the FERC. PJM pays the annual FERC fees. (d) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in Energy Delivery comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to increased competitive transition charge amortization of $31 million at PECO and increased depreciation of $22 million due to capital additions across Energy Delivery. In January 2005, PECOs Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system as part of a broader Energy Delivery systems strategy. The approval of this new system will result in the accelerated depreciation of PECOs current system, which is expected to result in additional annual depreciation expense in 2005 and 2006 of $15 million and $8 million, respectively, relative to 2004 levels. If additional system changes are approved, additional accelerated depreciation may be required. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income reflects increases at PECO and ComEd of $63 million and $24 million, respectively. The increase at PECO was primarily attributable to a $58 million reduction of real estate tax accruals during 2003 and $12 million related to the reversal of a use tax accrual in 2003 resulting from an audit settlement, partially offset by $4 million of lower payroll taxes in 2004. The increase at ComEd was primarily attributable to a $25 million credit in 2003 for use tax payments for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger and a refund of $5 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2003 partially offset by a refund of $8 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2004. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense was primarily due to scheduled principal payments, debt retirements and prepayments, and refinancings at lower rates. Distributions on Preferred Securities of Subsidiaries. Effective July 1, 2003, upon the adoption of FIN 46 and effective December 31, 2003, upon the adoption of FIN 46 R, ComEd and 65 PECO deconsolidated their financing trusts (see Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). ComEd and PECO no longer record distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities, but record interest expense to affiliates related to their obligations to the financing trusts. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. During 2004, ComEd and PECO recorded $19 million and $25 million, respectively, of equity in net losses of subsidiaries as a result of ComEd and PECO deconsolidating their financing trusts. Other, net. The change in other, net is primarily due to Exelons initiation in 2004 of an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $1.2 billion of long term debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity. ComEd recorded charges of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of these charges included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Energy Delivery Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Energy Deliverys electric sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) (a) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (b) Residential 36,812 37,564 (752 ) (2.0%) Small commercial & industrial 26,914 28,165 (1,251 ) (4.4%) Large commercial & industrial 20,969 20,660 309 1.5% Public authorities & electric railroads 5,135 6,022 (887 ) (14.7%) Total full service 89,830 92,411 (2,581 ) (2.8%) Delivery only (c) Residential 2,158 900 1,258 139.8% Small commercial & industrial 8,794 7,461 1,333 17.9% Large commercial & industrial 13,182 10,689 2,493 23.3% Public authorities & electric railroads 1,410 1,402 8 0.6% 25,544 20,452 5,092 24.9% PPO (ComEd only) Small commercial & industrial 3,594 3,318 276 8.3% Large commercial & industrial 4,223 4,348 (125 ) (2.9%) Public authorities & electric railroads 1,670 1,925 (255 ) (13.2%) 9,487 9,591 (104 ) (1.1%) Total delivery only and PPO 35,031 30,043 4,988 16.6% Total retail deliveries 124,861 122,454 2,407 2.0% (a) One gigawatthour is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (c) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which rates include a distribution charge and a CTC. 66 Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 3,612 $ 3,715 $ (103) (2.8%) Small commercial & industrial 2,360 2,421 (61) (2.5%) Large commercial & industrial 1,403 1,394 9 0.6% Public authorities & electric railroads 341 396 (55) (13.9%) Total full service 7,716 7,926 (210) (2.6%) Delivery only (b) Residential 164 65 99 152.3% Small commercial & industrial 220 214 6 2.8% Large commercial & industrial 190 196 (6) (3.1%) Public authorities & electric railroads 28 33 (5) (15.2%) 602 508 94 18.5% PPO (ComEd only) (c) Small commercial & industrial 246 225 21 9.3% Large commercial & industrial 240 240 Public authorities & electric railroads 92 103 (11) (10.7%) 578 568 10 1.8% Total delivery only and PPO 1,180 1,076 104 9.7% Total electric retail revenues 8,896 9,002 (106) (1.2%) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 646 555 91 16.4% Total electric revenue $ 9,542 $ 9,557 $ (15) (0.2%) (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. PECOs tariffed rates also include a CTC. See Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue under tariffed rates from customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which rates include a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (c) Revenues from customers choosing ComEds PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. Energy Deliverys gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers in million cubic feet (mmcf) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,949 61,858 (1,909) (3.1%) Transportation 27,148 26,404 744 2.8% Total 87,097 88,262 (1,165) (1.3%) Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 702 $ 609 $ 93 15.3% Transportation 18 18 Resales and other 28 18 10 55.6% Total $ 748 $ 645 $ 103 16.0% 67 Results of Operations Generation As previously described, effective January 1, 2004, Exelon contributed its interest in Exelon Energy Company to Generation. Exelon Energy Company was previously reported as a part of the Enterprises segment. For comparative discussion and analysis, Exelon Energy Companys results of operations have been included within Generations results of operations as if this transfer had occurred on January 1, 2003. 2004 2003 Favorable(Unfavorable) OPERATING REVENUES $ 7,938 $ 8,760 $ (822 ) OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 2,325 3,630 1,305 Fuel 1,845 2,115 270 Operating and maintenance 2,273 1,886 (387 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 294 201 (93 ) Taxes other than income 171 121 (50 ) Total operating expense 6,908 8,898 1,990 OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) 1,030 (138 ) 1,168 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (167 ) (89 ) (78 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) 49 (63 ) Other, net 143 (267 ) 410 Total other income and deductions (38 ) (307 ) 269 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES, MINORITY INTEREST, AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 992 (445 ) 1,437 INCOME TAXES 372 (190 ) (562 ) INCOME BEFORE MINORITY INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 620 (255 ) 875 MINORITY INTEREST 21 (4 ) 25 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 641 (259 ) 900 CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (net of income taxes) 32 108 (76 ) NET INCOME (LOSS) $ 673 $ (151 ) $ 824 Net Income (Loss). Generations net income in 2004 increased from 2003 due to a number of factors. The increase in Generations 2004 net income was driven primarily by charges incurred in 2003 for the impairment of the long lived assets of Boston Generating of $945 million (before income taxes) and the impairment and other transaction related charges of $280 million (before income taxes) related to Generations investment in Sithe. Also, 2004 results were favorably affected by the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen and an increase in revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, primarily due to the decrease in average realized costs resulting from the increased success in the hedging program of fuel costs in 2004. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles recorded in 2004 included a benefit of $32 million, net of income taxes, related to the adoption of FIN 46 R and in 2003 included income of 68 $108 million, net of income taxes related to the of adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these effects. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily as a result of the adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in revenues of $980 million in 2004 as compared with the prior year. Generations sales in 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,749 $ 3,831 $ (82 ) (2.1%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,227 4,107 (880 ) (21.4%) Total energy sales revenue 6,976 7,938 (962 ) (12.1%) Retail gas sales 456 588 (132 ) (22.4%) Trading portfolio 1 (1 ) (100.0%) Other revenue (a) 506 233 273 117.2% Total revenue $ 7,938 $ 8,760 $ (822 ) (9.4%) Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 110,465 112,688 (2,223 ) (2.0%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 92,134 112,816 (20,682 ) (18.3%) Total sales 202,599 225,504 (22,905 ) (10.2%) (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, including Sithe in 2004, and fossil fuel sales. Trading volumes of 24,001 GWhs and 32,584 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2004, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric Sales to Affiliates. Sales to Energy Delivery declined $82 million in 2004 as compared to the prior year. The lower sales to Energy Delivery were primarily driven by cooler than normal summer weather and lower average transfer prices in 2004 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase (decrease) Effects of EITF 03 11 adoption (a) $(966 ) Sale of Boston Generating (370 ) Addition of AmerGen operations 189 Other operations 267 Decrease in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (880 ) (a) Does not include $14 million of EITF 03 11 reclassifications related to fuel sales that are included in other revenues. The adoption of EITF 03 11 on January 1, 2004 resulted in the netting of certain revenues and the associated purchase power and fuel expense in 2004. The sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 69 resulted in less revenues from this entity in 2004 compared to the prior year. The acquisition of AmerGen resulted in increased market and retail electric sales of approximately $189 million in 2004. The remaining increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily due to higher volumes sold to the market at overall higher prices. The increase in market prices in the Midwest region was primarily driven by higher coal prices throughout the year, and in the Mid Atlantic region market prices were driven by higher oil and gas prices. Retail Gas Sales. Retail gas sales decreased $132 million as a result of the wind down of Exelon Energys northeast business. Other revenue. Other revenues in 2004 include $235 million of revenue related to the results of Sithe Energies, Inc. The remaining increase in other revenue includes sales from tolling agreement, fossil fuel and decommissioning revenue. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply of sales in 2004 and 2003, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 136,621 117,502 16.3 % Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 48,968 83,692 (41.5 %) Fossil and hydroelectric generation (c, d) 17,010 24,310 (30.0 %) Total supply 202,599 225,504 (10.2 %) (a) Excludes AmerGen for 2003. AmerGen generated 20,135 GWhs during the year ended December 31, 2004. (b) Sales in 2004 do not include 25,464 GWhs that were netted with purchased power GWhs as a result of the reclassification of certain hedging activities in accordance with EITF 03 11. Includes PPAs with AmerGen, which represented 12,667 GWhs in 2003. (c) Fossil and hydroelectric supply mix changed as a result of decreased fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. (d) Excludes Sithe and Generations investment in TEG and TEP. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase (decrease) Effects of the adoption of EITF 03 11 $ (980 ) Addition of AmerGen operations (344 ) Sale of Boston Generating (290 ) Midwest Generation (122 ) Price (13 ) Mark to market adjustments on hedging activity (14 ) Volume 267 Sithe Energies, Inc. 165 Other (244 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (1,575 ) Adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in purchased power and fuel expense of $980 million. 70 Addition of AmerGen Operations. As a result of Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in AmerGen in December 2003, purchased power decreased $379 million. In prior periods, Generation reported energy purchased from AmerGen as purchased power expense. The decrease in purchase power was offset by an increase of $35 million related to AmerGens nuclear fuel expense. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in fuel and purchased power expense for Boston Generating is due primarily to the sale of the business in May 2004. Midwest Generation. The volume of purchased power acquired from Midwest Generation declined in 2004 as a result of Generation exercising its option to reduce the capacity purchased from Midwest Generation, as announced in 2003. Price. The decrease reflects the forward hedging of fuel at lower costs than 2003 realized costs. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities at Generation were $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to losses of $16 million for 2003. Hedging activities in 2004 relating to Boston Generating operations accounted for a gain of $4 million and hedging activities relating to other Generation operations in 2004 accounted for losses of $6 million. Volume. Generation experienced increases in purchased power and fuel expense due to increased market and retail electric sales throughout its various sales regions. Sithe Energies, Inc. Under the provisions of FIN 46 R, the operating results of Sithe were included in Generations results of operations beginning April 1, 2004. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Sithe. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to $157 million of lower fuel expense due to the wind down of Exelon Energys northeast business and $97 million of lower transmission expense resulting from reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM. Generations average margins per megawatt hour (MWh) sold for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2004 2003 % Change Average revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 33.94 $ 34.00 (0.2%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 35.03 36.40 (3.8%) Total excluding the trading portfolio 34.43 35.20 (2.2%) Average supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (a) 20.59 25.48 (19.2%) Average margin excluding the trading portfolio 13.84 9.72 42.4% (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power, fuel costs and PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. In connection with the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003, Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes). See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Generations ownership interest in Boston Generating. 71 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Generation Increase (decrease) Addition of AmerGen operations $ 331 Sithe Energies, Inc. 71 Decommissioning related costs (a) 50 Refueling outage costs (b) 50 Pension, payroll and benefit costs, primarily associated with The Exelon Way (84 ) DOE Settlement (c) (52 ) Sale of Boston Generating (12 ) Other 33 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 387 (a) Includes $40 million due to AmerGen asset retirement obligation accretion. (b) Includes refueling outage cost of $43 million at AmerGen. (c) See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the spent nuclear fuel storage settlement agreement with the DOE. The increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen and Sithe Energies, Inc. in Generations consolidated results for 2004. Decommissioning related costs increased primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in 2004 compared to the prior year. Accretion expense includes accretion of the asset retirement obligation and adjustments to offset the earnings impacts of certain decommissioning related activities revenues earned from ComEd and PECO, income taxes, and depreciation of the ARC asset to zero. The increase in operating and maintenance expense was partially offset by a reductions in payroll related costs due to the implementation of the programs associated with The Exelon Way, the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 and the settlement with the DOE to reimburse Generation for costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power costs data for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Generation 2004 2003 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5% 93.4% Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.43 $ 12.53 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 47.48 $ 43.17 (a) Includes AmerGen and excludes Salem, which is operated PSEG Nuclear. (b) Includes PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. The higher nuclear capacity factor and lower nuclear production costs are primarily due to ten fewer unplanned outages which offset the impact of one additional planned refuel outage. The lower production cost in 2004 as compared to 2003 is primarily due to the lower fuel costs and the impact of the spent fuel storage cost settlement agreement with the DOE which offset the added cost for one additional planned refuel outage and costs associated with the Dresden generator repairs during outages in the fourth quarter of 2004. In 2004 as compared to 2003, the Quad Cities units intermittently operated at pre Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. Generation plans additional expenditures to ensure safe and reliable operations at the EPU output levels by mid 2005. 72 Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the immediate expensing of an ARC, totaling $49 million, recorded in 2004 for which no useful life remains. The ARC was originally recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 143, which requires the establishment of an asset to offset the impact of an increased asset retirement obligation (ARO). See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the 2004 update to the ARO and ARC. The remaining increase is due to capital additions and the consolidation of Sithe and AmerGen. These increase were partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense related to Boston Generating facilities, which were sold in May 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 37.5% for 2004 compared to 42.7% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to income taxes associated with nuclear decommissioning trust activity, income tax deductions related to non taxable employee benefits and the dilution of the permanent income tax benefits due to the increase in pre tax income in 2004. Results of Operations Enterprises As previously described, effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises contributed its interest in Exelon Energy Company to Generation. Exelon Energy Company was previously reported as a part of the Enterprises segment. For comparative discussion and analysis, the results of Exelon Energy Company have been excluded from Enterprises 2003 results of operations discussed below. 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 155 $ 923 $ (768 ) Operating and maintenance expense 211 1,027 816 Operating loss (62 ) (139 ) 77 Loss before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (7 ) (187 ) 180 Loss before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (13 ) (117 ) 104 Net loss (22 ) (118 ) 96 Divestiture of Businesses and Investments. In 2004, Exelon continued to execute its divestiture strategy for Enterprises by selling or winding down substantially all components of Enterprises. Enterprises expects to receive aggregate proceeds of $268 million and recorded a net pre tax gain on the disposition of assets and investments of $41 million in 2004. Enterprises results for 2004 compared to 2003 were significantly affected by the following transactions: InfraSource, Inc. On September 24, 2003, Enterprises sold the electric construction and services, underground and telecom businesses of InfraSource. Cash proceeds to Enterprises from the sale were approximately $175 million, net of transaction costs and cash transferred to the buyer upon sale, plus a $30 million subordinated note receivable maturing in 2011. At the time of closing, the present value of the note receivable was approximately $12 million. The note was collected in full during the second quarter of 2004, resulting in income of $18 million. Exelon Services, Inc. During 2004, Enterprises disposed of or wound down all of the operating businesses of Exelon Services, Inc. (Exelon Services), including Exelon Solutions, all mechanical services businesses and the Integrated Technology Group. Total expected proceeds and the net gain 73 on sale recorded during 2004 related to the disposition of these businesses were $61 million and $9 million, respectively. The gain was recorded in other income and deductions on Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2004, Exelon Services had assets and liabilities of $74 million and $22 million, respectively, which primarily consist of tax assets, affiliate receivables and payables, and sales proceeds to be collected. Exelon Thermal Holdings Inc. On June 30, 2004, Enterprises sold its Chicago business of Thermal for proceeds of $134 million, subject to working capital adjustments. Enterprises repaid $37 million of debt outstanding of the Chicago thermal operations prior to closing, which resulted in prepayment penalties of $9 million, recorded as interest expense. A pre tax gain of $45 million was recorded in other income and deductions on Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income. On September 29, 2004, Enterprises sold ETT Nevada, Inc., the holding company for its investment in Northwind Aladdin, LLC, for a net cash outflow of $1 million, subject to working capital adjustments. A pre tax loss of $3 million was recorded in other income and deductions within Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income inclusive of the acquisition and sale of Northwind Aladdins third party debt associated with the transaction. On October 28, 2004, Northwind Windsor, of which Enterprises owns a 50% interest, sold substantially all of its assets, providing Enterprises with cash proceeds of $8 million. A pre tax gain of $2 million was recorded in other income and deductions on Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income. PECO Telcove. On June 30, 2004, Enterprises sold its investment in PECO TelCove, a communications joint venture, along with certain telecommunications assets, for proceeds of $49 million. A pre tax gain of $9 million was recorded in other income and deductions on Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income. At December 1, 2004, the remaining assets of Enterprises totaled approximately $274 million in comparison to $697 million at December 31, 2003. Net Loss. The decrease in Enterprises net loss before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles in 2004 was primarily due to a decrease in operating and maintenance expense, partially offset by a decrease in operating revenues. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $23 million before income taxes from 2003 to 2004 primarily as a result of the sale of the majority of property, plant and equipment since September 2003. In 2004, Enterprises recorded impairment charges of investments of $15 million before income taxes due to other than temporary declines in value, partially offset by 2003 charges for impairment of investments of $46 million before income taxes and a net impairment of other assets of $8 million before income taxes. The adoption of EITF 03 16 increased the 2004 net loss by $9 million. The adoption of SFAS No. 143 increased the 2003 net loss by $1 million, net of income taxes. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of EITF 03 16 and SFAS No. 142. Operating Revenues. The changes in Enterprises operating revenues for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Variance F & M Holdings, LLC / InfraSource businesses (a) $ (493 ) Exelon Services (a) (259 ) Exelon Thermal (a) (17 ) Other 1 Decrease in operating revenues $ (768 ) (a) Operating revenues decreased as a result of the sale of certain businesses and wind down efforts. 74 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in Enterprises operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Variance F & M Holdings, LLC / InfraSource businesses (a) $ (503 ) Exelon Services (a) (276 ) Exelon Thermal (a) (10 ) Other (27 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (816 ) (a) Operating and maintenance expense decreased as a result of the sale of certain businesses and wind down efforts. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was (85.7%) for 2004 compared to 37.4% for 2003. This change in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the reversal of a large income tax receivable at F&M Holdings, LLC in the fourth quarter of 2004, the state tax impact on the gains on the sales of Exelon Thermals Chicago businesses and certain investments, and various other income tax adjustments primarily associated with the sale of Enterprise businesses. 75 Results of Operations Exelon Corporation Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2002 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,812 $ 14,955 $ 857 Purchased power and fuel expense 6,375 5,262 (1,113 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 (945 ) Operating and maintenance expense 4,508 4,345 (163 ) Operating income 2,277 3,299 (1,022 ) Other income and deductions (1,148 ) (627 ) (521 ) Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,129 2,672 (1,543 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 793 1,674 (881 ) Income taxes 331 998 667 Net income 905 1,440 (535 ) Diluted earnings per share 1.38 2.22 (0.84 ) Net Income. Net income for 2003 reflects income of $112 million, net of income taxes, for the adoption of SFAS No. 143, while net income for 2002 reflects a $230 million charge, net of income taxes, as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoptions of SFAS No. 143 and SFAS No. 142. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased in 2003 primarily due to increased market sales at Generation due to generating assets acquired in 2002 and higher wholesale market prices in 2003. Total market sales at Generation, excluding the trading portfolio, increased from 88,985 GWhs in 2002 to 112,816 GWhs in 2003, and the average revenue per MWh on Generations market sales, excluding the trading portfolio, increased from $32.36 in 2002 to $35.20 in 2003. This increase in operating revenues was partially offset by a decrease in Energy Deliverys revenues of $255 million primarily due to unfavorable weather impacts and an increase in customers selecting an alternative electric supplier or ComEds PPO. Enterprises also experienced a $413 million reduction in operating revenues from 2002 to 2003, primarily due to the sale of InfraSource during the third quarter of 2003. See further discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased in 2003 primarily due to generating assets acquired in 2002 and higher market prices for purchased power in 2003. The average cost per MWh supplied by Generation, excluding the trading portfolio, increased from $22.51 in 2002 to $25.48 in 2003 due to increased fossil generation and increased purchased power at higher market prices. Fossil and hydroelectric generation represented 11% of Generations total supply in 2003 compared to 6% in 2002. See further discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. Generation recorded a $945 million charge (before income taxes) during 2003 to impair the long lived assets of Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased in 2003 primarily due to a change in the accounting methodology for nuclear decommissioning, severance and severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way, and increased costs at Generation 76 associated with generating assets acquired in 2002. Partially offsetting these increases was an overall reduction in operating and maintenance expenses at Enterprises, primarily due to the sale of InfraSource during the third quarter of 2003. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Operating Income. The decrease in operating income, exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, Boston Generating long lived asset impairment charge and operating and maintenance expense discussed above, was primarily due to a decrease of $214 million in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 143 and lower depreciation and amortization expense in the Energy Delivery segment. In addition, taxes other than income also decreased by $128 million primarily due to a reduction in reserves for real estate taxes within the Energy Delivery and Generation segments. Other Income and Deductions. Other income and deductions changed primarily due to impairment and other transaction related charges of $280 million recorded in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe. Interest expense decreased 9% from $966 million in 2002 to $881 million in 2003 primarily due to less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates at Energy Delivery partially offset by increased interest expense at Generation due to debt related to 2002 acquisitions and reduced capitalized interest in 2003. In 2002, Enterprises recorded a gain on the sale of its investment in AT&T Wireless of $198 million (before income taxes). Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 29.3% for 2003 compared to 37.4% for 2002. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to a decrease in state income taxes, net of Federal income tax benefit, and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2003 and 2002 operating results and other statistical information set forth below reflect intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to Generation. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, became part of Generation. The information for 2003 and 2002 related to the Generation and Enterprises segments discussed below has been adjusted to reflect the transfer of Exelon Energy Company from the Enterprises segment to the Generation segment. Exelon Energy Companys 2003 and 2002 results were as follows: 2003 2002 Total revenues $ 834 $ 697 Intersegment revenues 4 8 Operating revenue and purchased power from affiliates 209 235 Depreciation and amortization 2 16 Operating expenses 857 700 Interest expense 1 4 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (11 ) Loss before income taxes (29 ) (6 ) Income taxes (11 ) 16 Net loss (18 ) (33 ) 77 Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Energy Delivery $ 1,170 $ 1,268 $ (98 ) Generation (259 ) 365 (624 ) Enterprises (117 ) 87 (204 ) Corporate (1 ) (50 ) 49 Total $ 793 $ 1,670 $ (877 ) Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Energy Delivery $ 1,175 $ 1,268 $ (93 ) Generation (151 ) 367 (518 ) Enterprises (118 ) (145 ) 27 Corporate (1 ) (50 ) 49 Total $ 905 $ 1,440 $ (535 ) Results of Operations Energy Delivery 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 10,202 $ 10,457 $ (255 ) OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power and fuel expense 4,597 4,602 5 Operating and maintenance 1,669 1,486 (183 ) Depreciation and amortization 873 978 105 Taxes other than income 440 531 91 Total operating expense 7,579 7,597 18 OPERATING INCOME 2,623 2,860 (237 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (747 ) (854 ) 107 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (39 ) (45 ) 6 Equity in income of unconsolidated affiliates 1 (1 ) Other, net 51 71 (20 ) Total other income and deductions (735 ) (827 ) 92 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,888 2,033 (145 ) INCOME TAXES 718 765 47 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,170 1,268 (98 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 5 5 NET INCOME $ 1,175 $ 1,268 $ (93 ) 78 Net Income. Energy Deliverys net income in 2003 decreased primarily due to increased operating and maintenance expense resulting from severance and curtailment charges associated with The Exelon Way, a charge at ComEd associated with a regulatory settlement, lower revenues, net of purchased power primarily attributable to weather and higher purchased power prices, partially offset by reductions in depreciation and amortization expense, taxes other than income, and interest expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in Energy Deliverys operating revenues for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Energy Delivery Electric Gas Total increase(decrease) Customer choice $ (167 ) $ $ (167 ) Weather (229 ) 71 (158 ) Resales and other (22 ) (22 ) Rate changes and mix (58 ) 51 (7 ) Volume 118 (3 ) 115 Other effects (15 ) (1 ) (16 ) (Decrease) increase in operating revenues $ (351 ) $ 96 $ (255 ) Customer Choice. For 2003 and 2002, 25% and 21%, respectively, of energy delivered to Energy Deliverys retail customers was provided by an alternative electric supplier or under the ComEd PPO. The decrease in electric retail revenues attributable to customer choice included a decrease in revenues of $155 million from customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier and a decrease in revenues of $12 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or being assigned to an alternative electric generation supplier. Weather. Energy Deliverys electric revenues were affected by cooler summer weather in 2003, partially offset by colder winter weather in the first quarter of 2003. Cooling degree days in the ComEd and PECO service territories were 36% lower and 21% lower, respectively, in 2003 as compared to 2002. Heating degree days in the ComEd and PECO service territories were 5% higher and 16% higher, respectively, in 2003 as compared to 2002. Energy Deliverys gas revenues were affected by colder winter weather in the first quarter of 2003. Resales and Other. Energy Deliverys gas revenues decreased as a result of a decrease in off system sales, exchanges and capacity releases. Rate Changes and Mix. Energy Deliverys electric revenues decreased $33 million at ComEd primarily due to decreased average energy rates under ComEds PPO as a result of lower wholesale market prices. Electric revenues decreased $25 million at PECO as a result of rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2003 as compared to 2002. Energy Deliverys gas revenues increased due to increases in rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003 and December 1, 2003. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet for 2003 was 11% higher than the rate in 2002. PECOs purchased gas cost rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC and are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in rates. 79 Volume. Energy Deliverys electric revenues increased as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily in the large and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Other. The decrease was attributable to a reduction in wholesale revenue. This reduction reflects a $12 million reimbursement from Generation in 2002. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Energy Delivery Electric Gas Total increase (decrease) Customer choice $ (143 ) $ $ (143 ) Weather (119 ) 49 (70 ) Resales and other (28 ) (28 ) Prices 74 39 113 Volume 73 6 79 Decommissioning 62 62 Other (23 ) 5 (18 ) (Decrease) increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ (76 ) $ 71 $ (5 ) Customer Choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to ComEds non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or ComEds PPO and PECOs non residential customers electing or being assigned to purchase energy from alternative energy suppliers. Weather. Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to the impacts of cooler summer weather in 2003, partially offset by colder winter weather in the first quarter of 2003. Resales and other. Energy Deliverys fuel expense decreased as a result of reduced resale transactions. Prices. Energy Deliverys purchased power increased for electric due to an increase in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost of electricity at ComEd, and fuel expense for gas increased due to PECOs higher gas prices. Volume. Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effect of weather, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, primarily large and small commercial and industrial customers at ComEd and PECO. Decommissioning. ComEd changed its presentation for accounting for decommissioning collections upon the adoption of SFAS No. 143 (see Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Decommissioning collections, which are remitted to Generation, were previously recorded as amortization expense and are recorded as purchased power expense in 2003. Other. Energy Deliverys purchased power decreased due to additional energy billed in 2002 under the purchase power agreement (PPA) with Generation discussed in other operating revenues above. 80 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Energy Delivery Increase(decrease) Severance, pension and postretirement benefit costs associated with The Exelon Way $ 167 Charge recorded at ComEd in 2003 associated with a regulatory settlement (a) 41 Increased storm costs 36 Increased employee fringe benefits primarily due to increased health care costs 23 Decreased payroll expense due to fewer employees (93 ) Decreased costs associated with the initial implementation of automated meter reading services at PECO in 2002 (13 ) Other 22 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 183 (a) For more information regarding the settlement, see Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The reduction in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to a change in the accounting for nuclear decommissioning at ComEd, lower amortization of ComEds recoverable transition costs of $58 million and a $48 million reduction due to changes in ComEds depreciation rates in 2002, partially offset by increased depreciation of $30 million due to capital additions across Energy Delivery and increased competitive transition charge amortization of $28 million at PECO. Taxes Other Than Income. The reduction in taxes other than income was primarily due to a reduction of real estate tax accruals recorded by PECO of $58 million during the third quarter of 2003 and a favorable settlement of coal use tax at ComEd of $25 million. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the reduction of real estate tax accruals recorded by PECO. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense was primarily due to refinancing existing debt at lower rates and the pay down of transitional trust notes. 81 Energy Delivery Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Energy Deliverys electric sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) (a) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Full service (b) Residential 37,564 37,839 (275 ) (0.7 %) Small commercial & industrial 28,165 29,971 (1,806 ) (6.0 %) Large commercial & industrial 20,660 22,652 (1,992 ) (8.8 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 6,022 7,332 (1,310 ) (17.9 %) Total full service 92,411 97,794 (5,383 ) (5.5 %) Delivery only (c) Residential 900 1,971 (1,071 ) (54.3 %) Small commercial & industrial 7,461 5,634 1,827 32.4 % Large commercial & industrial 10,689 7,652 3,037 39.7 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,402 913 489 53.6 % 20,452 16,170 4,282 26.5 % PPO (ComEd only) Small commercial & industrial 3,318 3,152 166 5.3 % Large commercial & industrial 4,348 5,131 (783 ) (15.3 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 1,925 1,346 579 43.0 % 9,591 9,629 (38 ) (0.4 %) Total delivery only and PPO deliveries 30,043 25,799 4,244 16.5 % Total retail deliveries 122,454 123,593 (1,139 ) (0.9 %) (a) One gigawatthour is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (c) Delivery only reflects service from customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which rates include a distribution charge and a CTC. 82 Electric Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 3,715 $ 3,719 $ (4 ) (0.1% ) Small commercial & industrial 2,421 2,601 (180 ) (6.9% ) Large commercial & industrial 1,394 1,496 (102 ) (6.8% ) Public authorities & electric railroads 396 456 (60 ) (13.2% ) Total full service 7,926 8,272 (346 ) (4.2% ) Delivery only (b) Residential 65 145 (80 ) (55.2% ) Small commercial & industrial 214 159 55 34.6% Large commercial & industrial 196 170 26 15.3% Public authorities & electric railroads 33 28 5 17.9% 508 502 6 1.2% PPO (ComEd only) (c) Small commercial & industrial 225 204 21 10.3% Large commercial & industrial 240 278 (38 ) (13.7% ) Public authorities & electric railroads 103 71 32 45.1% 568 553 15 2.7% Total delivery only and PPO 1,076 1,055 21 2.0% Total electric retail revenues 9,002 9,327 (325 ) (3.5% ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 555 581 (26 ) (4.5% ) Total electric revenue $ 9,557 $ 9,908 $ (351 ) (3.5% ) (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. PECOs tariffed rates also include a CTC. See Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue under tariffed rates from customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which rates include a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Revenues from customers choosing ComEds PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. Energy Deliverys gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers in million cubic feet (mmcf) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales 61,858 54,782 7,076 12.9 % Transportation 26,404 30,763 (4,359 ) (14.2 %) Total 88,262 85,545 2,717 3.2 % Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 609 $ 490 $ 119 24.3 % Transportation 18 19 (1 ) (5.3 %) Resales and other 18 40 (22 ) (55.0 %) Total $ 645 $ 549 $ 96 17.5 % 83 Results of Operations Generation As previously described, effective January 1, 2004, Exelon contributed its interest in Exelon Energy Company to Generation. Exelon Energy Company was previously reported as a part of the Enterprises segment. For comparative discussion and analysis, Exelon Energy Companys results of operations have been included within Generations results of operations as if this transfer had occurred on January 1, 2002. 2003 2002 Favorable (unfavorable) variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 8,760 $ 7,320 $ 1,440 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 3,630 3,298 (332 ) Fuel 2,115 1,372 (743 ) Operating and maintenance 1,886 1,686 (200 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 (945 ) Depreciation and amortization 201 292 91 Taxes other than income 121 166 45 Total operating expense 8,898 6,814 (2,084 ) OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) (138 ) 506 (644 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (89 ) (79 ) (10 ) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 49 87 (38 ) Other, net (267 ) 87 (354 ) Total other income and deductions (307 ) 95 (402 ) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES, MINORITY INTEREST, AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (445 ) 601 (1,046 ) INCOME TAXES (190 ) 233 423 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE MINORITY INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (255 ) 368 (623 ) MINORITY INTEREST (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (259 ) 365 (624 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (net of income taxes) 108 2 106 NET INCOME (LOSS) $ (151 ) $ 367 $ (518 ) Net Income (Loss). The decrease in Generations net income in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily due to an impairment charge of $945 million before income taxes recorded in 2003 related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating, impairment and other transaction related charges of $280 million before income taxes recorded in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, and increased operating and maintenance expenses, partially offset by an increase in operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation also experienced an increase in its effective tax rate. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles recorded in 2003 and 2002 included income of $108 million, net of income taxes, recorded in 2003 related to the of adoption of SFAS No. 143 and 84 income of $2 million, net of income taxes, recorded in 2002 related to the adoption of SFAS No. 142. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these effects. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased in 2003 as compared to 2002. Generations sales in 2003 and 2002 were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,831 $ 3,978 $ (147 ) (3.7 %) Wholesale and retail electric sales 4,107 2,736 1,371 50.1 % Total energy sales revenue 7,938 6,714 1,224 18.2 % Retail gas sales 588 451 137 30.4 % Trading portfolio 1 (29 ) 30 (103.4 %) Other revenue (a) 233 184 49 26.6 % Total revenue $ 8,760 $ 7,320 $ 1,440 19.7 % Sales (in GWhs) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 112,688 118,473 (5,785 ) (4.9 %) Wholesale and retail electric sales 112,816 88,985 23,831 26.8 % Total sales 225,504 207,458 18,046 8.7 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements and fossil fuel sales. Trading volumes of 32,584 GWhs and 69,933 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2003, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric Sales to Affiliates. Sales to affiliates decreased primarily due to lower volume sales to ComEd, offset by slightly higher realized prices. Sales to PECO were lower, primarily due to lower realized prices, partially offset by slightly higher volumes. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. Sales volume in the wholesale spot and bilateral markets increased primarily due to the acquisition of Exelon New England in November 2002 and the commencement of commercial operations in 2003 of the Boston Generating facilities, Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River. In addition, average market prices were $5/MWh higher than 2002. Retail Gas Sales. Retail gas sales at Exelon Energy increased $97 million due to higher gas prices in 2003. In addition, customer growth in the gas and electric markets increased revenues by $69 million and $40 million, respectively. These increases were partially offset by the discontinuance of retail sales in the PJM region of $40 million and the wind down of the Northeast operations of $29 million. Trading Revenues. Trading activity increased revenue by $1 million in 2003 compared to a reduction in revenue of $29 million in 2002 due to an increase in gas prices in April 2002, which negatively affected Generations trading positions. Other. Revenues also increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, as a result of a $76 million increase in sales of excess fossil fuel. The increased excess fossil fuel is a result of generating plants in the Texas and New England regions operating at less than projected levels. Also, revenue increased by $62 million due to higher decommissioning revenue received from ComEd in 2003 compared to 2002. 85 Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply of sales in 2003 and 2002, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2003 2002 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 117,502 115,854 1.4 % Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 83,692 78,628 6.4 % Fossil and hydroelectric generation 24,310 12,976 87.3 % Total supply 225,504 207,458 8.7 % (a) Excluding AmerGen. (b) Including purchase power agreements with AmerGen. Generations supply mix changed as a result of increased nuclear generation due to a lower number of refueling and unplanned outages during 2003 as compared to 2002, increased fossil generation due to the Exelon New England plants acquired in November 2002, including plants under construction which became operational in the second and third quarters of 2003 and account for an increase of 8,426 GWhs. Additionally, the change included additional purchased power of 3,320 GWhs from Exelon New England, a new PPA with AmerGen which increased purchased power by 3,049 GWhs in the second quarter of 2003 and 11,989 GWhs of other miscellaneous power purchases, which more than offset a 14,208 GWhs reduction in purchased power from Midwest Generation. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Generation Increase Exelon New England $ 429 Prices 350 Volume 46 Hedging activity 22 Other 228 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 1,075 Exelon New England. Generation acquired Exelon New England in November 2002 and Mystic Units 8 and 9 began commercial operations during the second quarter of 2003, while Fore River began commercial operations during the third quarter of 2003. Prices. The increase reflects higher market prices in 2003. Volume. Purchased power increased in 2003 due to an increase in purchased power from AmerGen under a June 2003 PPA to purchase 100% of the output of Oyster Creek. Prior to the June 2003 PPA, Generation did not purchase power from Oyster Creek. Fuel expense increased due to increases in fossil fuel generation required to meet the increased market demand for energy and the acquisition of generating plants in Texas in April 2002. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities were $16 million in 2003 compared to a gain of $6 million in 2002. Other. Other increases in purchased power and fuel were primarily due to $171 million of higher purchased power and fuel expense at Exelon Energy, additional nuclear fuel amortization of $16 million in 2003 resulting from under performing fuel, which was completely replaced in May 2003 at the Quad Cities Unit 1, and $10 million due to the write down of coal inventory in 2003 as a result of a fuel burn analysis. 86 Generations average margins per MWh sold for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2003 2002 % Change Average revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 34.00 $ 33.58 1.3 % Wholesale electric sales 36.40 30.75 18.4 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 35.20 32.36 8.8 % Average supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (a) 25.48 22.51 13.2 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio 9.72 9.85 (1.3 %) (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power, fuel costs and PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Generation Increase(decrease) 2003 asset impairment charge related to long lived assets of Boston Generating $ 945 Adoption of SFAS No. 143 (a) 118 Increased costs due to generating asset acquisitions in 2002 78 Severance, pension and postretirement benefit costs associated with The Exelon Way 60 Increased employee fringe benefits primarily due to increased health care costs 54 Decreased refueling outage costs (b) (49 ) 2002 executive severance (19 ) Other (42 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 1,145 (a) Due to a reclassification of decommissioning related expenses upon the adoption of SFAS No. 143. (b) Includes cost savings of $19 million related to one of Generations co owned facilities. Refueling outage days, not including Generations co owned facilities, decreased from 202 in 2002 to 157 in 2003. The increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003. Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes) in the third quarter of 2003. The remaining increase is due to payroll related costs due to implementation of the programs associated with The Exelon Way, costs incurred due to generating asset acquisitions made in 2002, partially offset by lower refueling outage costs. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power costs data for the year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: Generation 2003 2002 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.4% 92.7% Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.53 $ 13.00 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 43.17 $ 41.94 (a) Including AmerGen and excluding Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. (b) Including PPAs with AmerGen. The higher nuclear capacity factor and decreased production costs are primarily due to 56 fewer planned refueling outage days in 2003 as compared to 2002, resulting in a $36 million decrease in refueling outage costs, including a $6 million decrease related to AmerGen. The years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 included 30 and 26 unplanned outages, respectively, resulting in a $2 million increase in non refueling outage costs in 2003 as compared to 2002. 87 Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to a $130 million reduction in decommissioning expense net of ARC depreciation, as these costs are included in operating and maintenance expense after the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and a $12 million decrease due to life extensions of assets acquired in 2002. The decrease was partially offset by $65 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service in 2002, of which $18 million of expense is related to plant acquisitions made after the third quarter of 2002. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 42.7% for 2003 compared to 38.8% for 2002. This increase was primarily attributable to the impairment charges recorded in 2003 related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating and Generations investment in Sithe that resulted in a pre tax loss. Other adjustments that affected income taxes include a decrease in tax exempt interest in 2003 and an increase in nuclear decommissioning investment income for 2003. Results of Operations Enterprises Enterprises 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 923 $ 1,336 $ (413 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 6 6 Operating and maintenance expense 1,027 1,297 270 Operating loss (139 ) (11 ) (128 ) Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (187 ) 140 (327 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (117 ) 87 (204 ) Net loss (118 ) (145 ) 27 Net Loss. The decrease in Enterprises net loss before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles in 2003 was primarily due to a decrease in operating revenues, partially offset by a decrease in operating and maintenance expense. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $15 million before income taxes from 2002 to 2003 primarily as a result of property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale in 2003. In 2003, Enterprises recorded charges for impairments of $46 million before income taxes due to other than temporary declines in value and an impairment charge of $8 million before income taxes for its equity method investment in a district cooling business joint venture, partially offset by 2002 charges for impairment of investments of $41 million before income taxes and a net impairment of other assets of $4 million before income taxes. In 2002, Enterprises recorded a pre tax gain of $198 million on the sale of its investment in AT&T Wireless. The adoption of SFAS No. 143 reduced 2003 net income by $1 million, net of income taxes. The adoption of SFAS No. 142 reduced 2002 net income by $243 million, net of income taxes. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoptions of SFAS No. 143 and SFAS No. 142. Operating Revenues. The changes in Enterprises operating revenues for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Enterprises Increase(decrease) InfraSource $ (359 ) Exelon Services (60 ) Other 6 Decrease in operating revenues $ (413 ) 88 InfraSource. Operating revenues decreased $256 million at InfraSource due to the sale of the majority of the InfraSource businesses in the third quarter of 2003. For the remaining InfraSource businesses, operating revenues decreased $103 million as a result of the closing of certain businesses and the reduction of new business as a result of wind down efforts. Exelon Services. Operating revenues decreased $79 million at Exelon Services due to poor economic conditions in the construction market. This decrease was partially offset by improved performance contracting activities of $19 million. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in Enterprises operating and maintenance expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Enterprises Increase(decrease) InfraSource $ (267 ) Exelon Services (6 ) Other 3 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (270 ) InfraSource. Operating and maintenance expense decreased $222 million due to the sale of the majority of InfraSource businesses in the third quarter of 2003. In addition, operating and maintenance expense decreased $80 million as a result of wind down efforts of the remaining InfraSource businesses. These decreases were partially offset by increased expense of approximately $30 million due to margin deterioration on various construction projects. During 2003, Enterprises recorded a net charge to operating and maintenance expense of $4 million (before income taxes and minority interest) associated with the sale of the majority of the InfraSource businesses. Exelon Services. Operating and maintenance expense decreased $56 million at Exelon Services due primarily to delays on mechanical construction projects resulting from poor economic conditions in the construction market. This decrease was partially offset by additional costs from increased performance contracting activities of $13 million, a goodwill impairment charge of $24 million and other asset impairments of $15 million. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 37.4% for 2003 compared to 37.9% for 2002. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the AT&T wireless sale. Liquidity and Capital Resources Exelons businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. These capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from Energy Deliverys and Generations operations. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. Exelons access to external financing at reasonable terms depends on Exelon and its subsidiaries credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that Exelon no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon has access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1.5 billion that it currently utilizes to support its commercial paper programs. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Exelon primarily uses its capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay common stock dividends, fund its pension obligations and 89 invest in new and existing ventures. Exelons construction expenditures utilize a significant amount of cash on projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, Energy Delivery operates in a rate regulated environment in which recovery of current cash expenditures takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, Exelon has historically operated with a working capital deficit. However, Exelon expects operating cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake, such as the proposed merger with PSEG, may require external debt financing or the issuance of Exelon common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Energy Deliverys cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. Energy Deliverys future cash flows will be affected by the impact of the economy, weather, customer choice and future regulatory proceedings on its revenues and its ability to achieve operating cost reductions. Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including Energy Delivery. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Cash flows from operations have been, and are expected to continue to provide, a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements for the foreseeable future. Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in the rate regulatory environments of ComEd and PECO, although any effects are not expected to hinder the ability to fund their business requirements. See Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business for further information regarding the regulatory transition periods. Additionally, Exelon, through its ComEd subsidiary, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. See Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these tax positions. The following table provides a summary of the major items impacting cash flows from operations: 2004 2003 Variance Net income $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 959 Non cash operating activities (a) 2,274 2,989 (715 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) 530 (366 ) 896 Pension and post retirement healthcare benefit payments (270 ) (144 ) (126 ) Net cash flow from operations $ 4,398 $ 3,384 $ 1,014 (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, impairment of investments and long lived assets and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations in 2004 and 2003 were $4,398 million and $3,384 million, respectively. Changes in Exelons cash flows provided by operations were generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. The $1,014 million increase in cash flows provided by operations from 2003 to 2004 was due primarily to an increase in operating income of $1,156 million during 2004 over 2003 and changes in working capital and other asset and liability accounts, including income taxes. The timing of the working capital and other noncurrent asset and liability account changes resulted in an increase to cash flows provided by operations of approximately $896 million in 2004 over 2003, approximately 90 $564 million of which is the result of the timing of Federal income tax activity. The operating cash flows resulting from Federal income tax activity were primarily the result of the following: Exelon reduced its Federal income tax obligation by approximately $315 million and $140 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, for tax deductible pension plan contributions of approximately $900 million to be contributed prior to September 15, 2005 and $400 million contributed prior to September 15, 2004, respectively. Exelon realized Federal income tax credits from its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, which reduced its 2004 and 2003 Federal income taxes payable by approximately $216 million and $23 million, respectively. Exelon recorded approximately $631 million and $1,057 million of special depreciation allowances in 2004 and 2003, respectively, that resulted in the reduction of Federal income taxes payable of approximately $220 million and $370 million, respectively. Approximately $150 million of the 2003 special depreciation allowance was recorded as a Federal income tax receivable at December 31, 2003 and filed and collected as a corporate application for quick refund in March 2004. This activity resulted in a $300 million year over year increase in cash flows from 2003 to 2004. In November 2003, Exelon recorded a Federal income tax receivable of approximately $120 million for capital losses generated in 2003 related to its investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. The transaction was presented as a use of cash in Exelons December 31, 2003 statement of cash flows. The combination of the income tax activities described above and other income tax activities reduced the amount of cash paid for income taxes from approximately $730 million in 2003 to approximately $200 million in 2004, a decrease of $530 million. Additionally, the following non recurring operating cash flows occurred during 2004: In December 2004, TXU and Generation terminated a tolling agreement and entered into a new agreement. Upon termination of the original agreement, Generation received a cash payment of $172 million. The resulting gain was deferred and will be recognized as income over the contractual term of the new agreement. See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the transaction with TXU. Net cash received for collateral for 2004 was $73 million, compared to $68 million paid in 2003. The year over year increase in cash flows of $141 million was primarily due to the reduction of cash collateral requirements for certain trading counterparties as a result of Generation negotiating the acceptance of letters of credit during 2004 to satisfy current and future collateral obligations. During 2004, Exelon paid $86 million for prepayment premiums on the retirement of ComEd debt. See Cash Flows from Financing Activities for further information regarding debt retirements pursuant to the accelerated liability management plan. Exelon management does not expect the changes in working capital associated with income taxes and other non recurring events, as described above, that contributed to the increase in cash flows provided by operations in 2004 to recur. Pension and other non pension postretirement payments. Discretionary tax deductible pension plan payments were $439 million in 2004 compared to $367 million in 2003. Exelon also contributed $11 million during 2004 to the pension plans needed to satisfy minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Additionally, $132 million and $135 million were contributed to the postretirement welfare benefit plans for 2004 and 2003, respectively. See Note 15 of Exelons 91 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding pension and postretirement benefits. Exelon expects to contribute approximately $2 billion to its pension plans in 2005, which will be funded primarily through the issuance of debt in 2005. These contributions exclude benefit payments expected to be made directly from corporate assets. Of the $2 billion expected to be contributed to the pension plans during 2005, $13 million is estimated to be needed to satisfy Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) minimum funding requirements. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2004 and 2003 were $1,736 million and $2,109 million, respectively. In addition to the recurring investing activities presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, significant investing activities by business segment during 2004 and 2003 are as follows: Exelon Exelon received cash proceeds of $76 million, net of $2 million held in escrow at December 31, 2004, from the sale of its investments in affordable housing in 2004. Exelon contributed $56 million to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities in 2004. Generation Exelon Generation received cash proceeds of $42 million from the January 2004 sale of three gas turbines that were classified as assets held for sale at December 31, 2003. On March 31, 2004, Exelon consolidated the assets and liabilities of Sithe under the provisions of FIN 46 R, which resulted in an increase in cash of $19 million. See Note 1 and Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the FIN 46 R consolidation of Sithe. Sithe collected a $20 million note receivable during 2004 related to the sale of certain businesses of Sithe during the fourth quarter of 2003 and the first quarter of 2004. On November 25, 2003, Generation, Reservoir, and Sithe completed a series of transactions resulting in Generation and Reservoir each indirectly owning a 50% interest in Sithe. Net cash proceeds from the series of transactions were $44 million. In addition, a note was received from EXRES SHC, Inc. for $92 million. See Note 3 and Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this transaction and Generations sale of Sithe. In December 2003, Generation purchased the 50% interest in AmerGen held by British Energy for $240 million, net of cash acquired of $36 million. The acquisition was funded with cash provided by operations. Enterprises Cash proceeds of $227 million, net of transaction costs and contingency payments on prior year dispositions, were received during 2004 from the sales of Exelon Thermal Holdings, Inc., substantially all of the operating businesses of Exelon Services, Inc., and Enterprises investments in PECO TelCove and other equity method and cost basis investments of Enterprises. 92 Early settlement on an acquisition note receivable from the 2003 disposition of InfraSource resulted in cash proceeds of $30 million during 2004. In September 2003, Enterprises sold the electric construction and services, underground and telecom businesses of InfraSource for cash of $175 million, net of transaction costs and cash transferred to the buyer upon sale. Investing activities in 2004 and 2003 exclude the non cash issuance of $22 million and $238 million of notes payable, respectively, for Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Exelon expects these investments to provide more than $200 million of net cash benefits from 2005 through 2008, with peak net cash of approximately $100 million in 2008. Capital expenditures by business segment for 2004 and projected amounts for 2005 are as follows: 2004 2005 Energy Delivery $ 946 $ 1,023 Generation 960 1,073 Corporate and other 15 56 Total capital expenditures $ 1,921 $ 2,152 Excluding acquisitions, capital requirements during 2005 are expected to be met through internally generated cash or external borrowings. Exelons proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Energy Delivery. Energy Deliverys projected capital expenditures for 2005 reflect continuing efforts to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems and capital additions to support new business and customer growth. Exelon anticipates that Energy Deliverys capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Generation. Exelon projects that Generations capital expenditures for 2005 will be higher than they were in 2004. The majority of these expenditures will be for additions and upgrades to existing facilities, nuclear fuel and increases in capacity at existing plants. Generation is planning on eleven nuclear refueling outages in 2005, compared to ten during 2004; however, the projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants are expected to decrease in 2005 from 2004 by $40 million. Exelon anticipates that Generations capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities for 2004 were $2,627 million compared to $1,240 million for the same period in 2003. The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to an increase in the net retirement of long term debt and preferred securities during 2004 of $2,221 million. Exelon retired $1.2 billion of long term debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity, during 2004 in accordance with an accelerated liability management plan and retired $728 million of long term debt due to financing affiliates. During 2003, Exelon issued debt (net of retirements during the period) and preferred stock of approximately $96 million. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding debt issuances and retirements during 2004. During 2004, Exelon issued $164 million of commercial paper, net of payments, and received cash proceeds of $33 million from the settlement of interest rate swaps. 93 During 2003, Exelon repaid $355 million of commercial paper and paid $43 million to settle interest rate swaps. Additionally, Exelon repurchased common shares totaling $82 million during 2004 and received proceeds from employee stock plans of $240 million and $181 million during 2004 and 2003, respectively. In 2004, Generation paid $27 million of a note payable to Sithe, compared to $446 million paid in 2003. At December 31, 2004, Generation had repaid $473 million of the note payable, resulting in a remaining balance of $63 million, which was paid upon the completion of a series of transactions that resulted in Generations exit from its investment in Sithe on January 31, 2005. See Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale of Sithe. The 2004 cash dividend payments on common stock increased $211 million over 2003, reflecting a 10% increase in the first quarter of 2004 and an 11% increase in the third quarter of 2004. See further discussion of Exelons dividend policy within the Dividends section of ITEM 5 of this Form 10 K. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, Exelon may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen its balance sheet. In the third quarter of 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan. Through December 31, 2004, ComEd had retired approximately $1.2 billion of debt under the plan, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper by Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. At December 31, 2004, Exelon, along with ComEd, PECO and Generation, participated with a group of banks in a $1 billion unsecured revolving facility maturing on July 16, 2009 and a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on October 31, 2006. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. At December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had the following sublimits and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower BankSublimit (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon $ 700 $ 685 $ 490 ComEd 100 74 PECO 100 100 Generation 600 444 (a) Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. (b) Available capacity represents the bank sublimit net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit facilities. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum LIBOR adder is 170 basis points. The average interest rates on commercial paper in 2004 for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were approximately 1.51%, 2.11%, 1.08% and 1.14%, respectively. 94 The credit agreements require Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and, in the case of Exelon and Generation, revenues from Sithe and interest on the debt of its project subsidiaries. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2004: Exelon ComEd PECO Generation Credit agreement threshold 2.65 to 1 2.25 to 1 2.25 to 1 3.25 to 1 At December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. At December 31, 2004, Exelons capital structure consisted of 56% of long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts, 41% common equity, 2% notes payable and less than 1% preferred securities of subsidiaries. Total debt included $5.3 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of ComEd and PECO that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property and CTCs of Energy Delivery or mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary, Commonwealth Edison Company of Indiana, Inc. (ComEd of Indiana), PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon and UII, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, may participate as lenders. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the money pool by participant during 2004 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2004: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2004 Contributed (Borrowed) ComEd $ 487 $ 43 $ 308 ComEd of Indiana (a) 21 PECO 162 70 34 Generation 53 546 (283 ) BSC 197 (59 ) UII, LLC 160 (a) The activity at ComEd of Indiana was eliminated in the consolidation of ComEd. Security Ratings Exelons, ComEds, PECOs and Generations access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. On December 20, 2004, Standard and Poors Rating Services placed the ratings of Exelon and its subsidiaries on credit watch with negative implications in 95 response to the announced Merger between Exelon and PSEG. None of Exelons borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under Exelons credit facilities. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2004: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Investors Service, Inc. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa2 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior secured debt A3 A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 A BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 (a) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (b) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Exelon routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit its counterparties and Exelon to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See the PUHCA Restrictions section below for discussion of investment grade ratings under PUHCA. Shelf Registration As of December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd and PECO had current shelf registration statements for the sale of $2.0 billion, $555 million and $550 million, respectively, of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of Exelon, ComEd or PECO to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. 96 PUHCA Restrictions On April 1, 2004, Exelon obtained an order from the SEC under the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA) authorizing, through April 15, 2007, financing transactions, including the issuance of common stock, preferred securities, equity linked securities, long term debt and short term debt in an aggregate amount not to exceed $8.0 billion above the amount outstanding for Exelon Corporate and Generation at December 31, 2003. No securities have been issued under the above described limit. Exelon is also authorized to issue guarantees, letters of credit, or otherwise provide credit support with respect to the obligations of its subsidiaries and non affiliated third parties in the normal course of business of up to $6.0 billion outstanding at any one time. At December 31, 2004, Exelon had provided $2.0 billion of guarantees and letters of credit under the SEC order. See Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in this section for further discussion of guarantees. The SEC order requires Exelon to maintain a ratio of common equity to total capitalization (including securitization debt) of not less than 30%. At December 31, 2004, Exelons common equity ratio was 42%. Exelon expects that it will maintain a common equity ratio of at least 30%. Exelon is also limited by the April 1, 2004 order to an aggregate investment of $4.0 billion in exempt wholesale generators (EWGs) and foreign utility companies (FUCOs). At December 31, 2004, Exelon had invested $2.2 billion in EWGs, leaving $1.8 billion of investment authority under the order. In that order, the SEC reserved jurisdiction over an additional $3.0 billion in investments in EWGs. The loss of investment grade ratings for any outstanding security of ComEd, PECO or Generation would suspend the financing authority of the issuer to issue certain other securities and guarantees. The loss of investment grade ratings for any outstanding security of Exelon would suspend financing authority for ComEd, PECO, Generation and Exelon to issue certain other securities and guarantees. Exceptions include long term debt issuances by ComEd and PECO (authorization for such security issuances are granted by the ICC and the PUC, respectively), common stock and the issuance of securities for the purpose of funding money pool operations. For purposes of investment grade ratings, a security will be deemed to be rated investment grade if it is rated investment grade by at least one nationally recognized statistical rating organization. In cases where the financing authority of Exelon or a subsidiary is suspended in the circumstances as described above, Exelon would nevertheless be able to seek specific further authority from the SEC for it or its subsidiaries to continue to issue securities upon receipt of further SEC authorization. Under applicable law, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at ComEd, PECO or Generation may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. At December 31, 2004, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.4 billion, including ComEds retained earnings of $1,102 million (all of which had been appropriated for future dividend payments), PECOs retained earnings of $607 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $761 million. 97 Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2010 and beyond Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Long term debt $ 7,774 $ 424 $ 712 $ 1,023 $ 5,615 Long term debt to financing trusts 5,342 486 1,840 1,665 1,351 Interest payments on long term debt (a)(b) 4,031 429 790 644 2,168 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,938 329 515 285 809 Commercial paper 490 490 Capital leases 50 3 5 4 38 Operating leases 909 73 134 114 588 Power purchase obligations 9,497 2,024 1,973 1,288 4,212 Fuel purchase agreements 3,639 639 985 616 1,399 Other purchase obligations (c) 463 241 134 57 31 Chicago agreement (d) 48 6 12 12 18 Regulatory commitments 20 10 10 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 878 878 Obligation to minority shareholders 49 3 5 5 36 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 13 13 Decommissioning (e) 3,981 3,981 Total contractual obligations $ 39,122 $ 5,170 $ 7,115 $ 5,713 $ 21,124 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2004 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2004. In 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved contributions of approximately $2 billion in 2005 to Exelons defined benefit pension plans. The contributions will be funded in part by additional debt anticipated to be issued in 2005. Estimated future payments associated with the anticipated debt issuance have not been included in the table above. (b) Includes Sithe related interest payments of $71 million, $132 million, $115 million and $849 million for payments due in 2005, 2006 2007, 2008 2009 and 2010 and beyond, respectively. See Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the sale of Generations investment in Sithe. (c) Commitments for services and materials, minimum spend requirements related to the sale of InfraSource (see Note 2 of Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements) and amounts committed for information technology services. (d) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) Represents the present value of Generations obligation to decommission nuclear plants. For additional information about: regulatory commitments, see Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. commercial paper, see Note 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the spent nuclear fuel and decommissioning obligations, see Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the contribution required to Exelons pension plans to satisfy ERISA minimum funding requirements, see Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 98 operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements and other purchase obligations, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the obligation to minority shareholders, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Mystic Development LLC (Mystic) a former affiliate of Exelon New England has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $16 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheet of Exelon as of December 31, 2004 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Exelon paid down $27 million of the Exelon New England note during 2004 to fund Sithes acquisition of the 40% of Sithe/Independence Power Partners, L.P. that it did not own. Sithe is now the owner of 100% of the Independence generating plant. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permits ComEd, and the PUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, Generation was required to re measure its decommissioning liabilities at fair value and recorded an asset retirement obligation of $2.4 billion on January 1, 2003. Increases in the asset retirement obligation to decommission nuclear generating facilities resulting from the passage of time are recorded as operating and maintenance expense. Increases in the asset retirement obligation resulting from a remeasurement are recorded with a corresponding ARC, which is a component of property, plant and equipment. At December 31, 2004, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet was approximately $4.0 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin in 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $5.3 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2004. See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Exelons commercial commitments as of December 31, 2004. IRS Refund Claims ComEd and PECO have entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the IRS. ComEd and PECO previously made refundable prepayments to the tax consultant of $11 million and $5 million, respectively. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome of the claims and are based upon a percentage of the refunds to be recovered from the IRS, if any. The ultimate net cash outflow from ComEd and PECO related to all the agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claims with the 99 IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. A portion of ComEds tax benefits, including any associated interest for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger, would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill pursuant to a reallocation of the PECO / Unicom Merger purchase price. See below for discussion of the final approval of ComEds income tax refund claim. PECO cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of its refund claims. During 2004, the IRS granted preliminary approval for one of ComEds refund claims. As such, ComEd believes that it is probable that a fee will ultimately be paid to the tax consultant. Therefore, ComEd recorded an expense of $5 million (pre tax), which resulted in a decrease to the prepayment from $11 million to $6 million. The charge represents an estimate of the fee to the tax consultant which may be adjusted upward or downward depending on the IRS final calculation of the tax and interest benefit. As of December 31, 2004, ComEd had not reflected the tax benefit associated with the refund claim pending final approval of the IRS; however, as described above, the net income statement impact for ComEd is anticipated to be neutral or positive. In the first quarter of 2005, ComEd received final approval for the income tax refund described above; however the calculation of the claim, including interest has not been finalized. As a portion of the refund will be recorded against goodwill under the provisions of EITF Issue No. 93 7, Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination, the net result is not anticipated to have a material impact on Exelons results of operations. Variable Interest Entities Sithe. As of December 31, 2004, Generation was a 50% owner of Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Generation consolidated Sithe within its financial statements as of March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. See Note 3 and Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of Generations ownership in Sithe and the ultimate sale of Generations entire interest in Sithe, which was completed on January 31, 2005. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Trust IV in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding, LLC, ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, PECO Trust III and PETT were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Amounts of $5.3 billion owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004. See Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities in Part I, Item 1 for further discussion of the nature, purpose and history of Exelons involvement with these financing trusts. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2005. PECO entered into this agreement to diversify its funding sources at 100 favorable floating interest rates. At December 31, 2004, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $179 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, and a $46 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a long term note payable and reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as long term debt due within one year. At December 31, 2003, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $176 million interest in accounts receivable which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140 and a $49 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable which was accounted for as a long term note payable. PECO must continue to service these receivables and must maintain the level of the accounts receivable at $225 million. If PECO fails to maintain that level, the cash that would otherwise be received by PECO under this program must be held in escrow until the level is met. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposit. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the American Nuclear Insurers Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business Substantially all of Exelons businesses are in the electric generation, transmission and distribution industry in the United States. That industry is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. Exelons Energy Delivery business remains highly regulated while Exelons Generation and Enterprises businesses operate in competitive environments. All of Exelons businesses are capital intensive. The challenges affecting Exelons businesses are discussed below. There are several factors, such as weather, economic activity and regulatory actions that affect its businesses in different ways. Also, there are several factors that affect its business as a whole, such as environmental compliance and the ability to access capital on a cost effective basis. Further discussion of its liquidity and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. Energy Delivery The Energy Delivery business is comprised of two utility transmission and distribution companies, ComEd and PECO, which provide electricity and, in the case of PECO, natural gas to customers in Illinois and Pennsylvania, respectively. Energy Delivery focuses on providing safe and reliable services to customers. Energy Delivery continues to make improvements to its delivery systems to minimize the frequency and duration of service interruptions, while working more efficiently to lower costs. Exelon believes that Energy Delivery will continue to provide a significant and steady source of earnings and cash flows over the next several years. 101 Both Illinois and Pennsylvania have adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. As a result of these restructuring initiatives, both ComEd and PECO are subject to rate freezes or caps through mandated restructuring transition periods. During these periods, the results of operations of ComEd and PECO will depend on their ability to deliver energy in a cost efficient manner and to offset infrastructure investments and inflation with cost savings. ComEd and PECO each have long term, full requirements supply contracts with Generation, helping to mitigate the risk of changing energy supply costs during their respective transition periods. Energy Delivery is also managing operating and maintenance costs, while maintaining a strong focus on both reliability and safety in operating its business. Exelon cannot currently predict the frameworks that will be used by the Illinois and Pennsylvania state regulators to establish rates after the transition periods. Exelon also cannot predict the outcome of any new laws that may impact its business. Nevertheless, Exelon expects that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electric power and energy to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR obligations, whereby each utility is required to provide electric power and energy service to customers in its service area. ComEd and PECO therefore must continue to ensure that adequate supplies of electricity and gas are available at reasonable costs. More detailed explanations for each of these and other challenges in managing the Energy Delivery business are as follows: Exelon must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing the Energy Delivery business, which affect their costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. The Energy Delivery business is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. State commissions regulate the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financings; and transactions between the utilities and affiliates. The FERC regulates the utilities transmission rates, certain other aspects of their businesses and, for PECO, gas pipelines. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which Energy Delivery does business, its ability to undertake specified actions, the costs of its operations, and the level of rates Energy Delivery may charge to recover such costs. Energy Delivery must manage its costs due to the rate and equity return limitations imposed on its revenues. Rate freezes or caps in effect at ComEd and PECO currently limit their ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. As a result, Energy Deliverys future results of operations will depend on the ability of ComEd and PECO to deliver electricity and, in the case of PECO, natural gas in a cost efficient manner. Rate limitations. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated rate freeze on bundled retail rates that will remain in effect until January 1, 2007. Pursuant to a PECO / Unicom Merger related settlement agreement with the PUC, PECO is subject to agreed upon electric service rate reductions of $200 million, in aggregate, for the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005, including $40 million in each of 2004 and 2005, and caps (subject to limited exceptions for significant increases in Federal or state income taxes or other significant changes in law or regulation that do not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return) on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006, and on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. Equity return limitation. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated cap on its return on common equity through the end of 2006. The cap is based on a two year average of the U.S. Treasury long term rates (20 years and above) plus 8.5% and is compared to a two year average return on 102 ComEds common equity. The legislation requires customer refunds equal to one half of any earnings above the cap. ComEd is allowed to include regulatory asset amortization in the calculation of earnings. Under Illinois statute, any impairment of goodwill has no impact on the determination of the cap on ComEds allowed equity return during the transition period. ComEd has not triggered the earnings sharing provision in 2004 or previous years and does not expect to trigger that provision in 2005 or 2006. Energy Deliverys long term purchase power agreements provide a hedge to its customers demand. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, Energy Delivery has established full requirements, power supply agreements with Generation which reduce exposure to the volatility of customer demand and market prices through 2006 for ComEd and through 2010 for PECO. Market prices relative to Energy Deliverys regulated rates still influence whether retail customers purchase energy from Energy Delivery or from an alternative electric supplier. Effective management of capital projects is important to Energy Deliverys business. Energy Deliverys business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities and in other internal infrastructure projects. Energy Delivery expects to continue to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems and for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. It is anticipated that Energy Deliverys capital expenditures will exceed depreciation on its plant assets. Energy Deliverys base rate freeze and caps will generally preclude rate recovery on any of these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2007. Energy Deliverys business may be significantly affected by the end of the Illinois and Pennsylvania regulatory transition periods. Illinois. Illinois electric utilities are allowed to collect competitive transition charges (CTCs) from customers who choose an alternative electric supplier or choose ComEds power purchase option (PPO). CTCs were intended to assist electric utilities, such as ComEd, in recovering stranded costs that might not otherwise be recoverable in a fully competitive market. The CTC charge represents the difference between the market value of delivered energy (the sum of generation service at market based prices and the regulated price of energy delivery) and recoveries under historical bundled rates, reduced by a mitigation factor. The CTCs are updated annually. Over time, to facilitate the transition to a competitive market, the mitigation factor increases, thereby reducing the CTC. In 2004 and 2003, ComEd collected $169 million and $304 million, respectively, of CTC revenue. As a result of increasing mitigation factors, changes in energy prices and the ability of certain customers to establish fixed, multi year CTC rates beginning in 2003, it is anticipated that this revenue source will decline to approximately $90 million to $110 million in each of the years 2005 and 2006. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Through 2006, ComEd will continue to have an obligation to offer bundled service to all customers (except certain large customers with demand of three MWs or more) at frozen price levels, under which a majority of ComEds residential and small commercial customers are expected to continue to receive service. ComEds current bundled service is generally provided under an all inclusive rate that does not separately break out charges for energy generation service and energy delivery service, but charges a single set of prices. After the transition ends in 2006, ComEds bundled rates may be reset through a regulatory approval process, which may include traditional or innovative pricing, including performance based incentives to ComEd. 103 In order to address post transition uncertainty, ComEd is continually working with the ICC, consumer advocates and business community leadership to facilitate the development of a competitive electricity market while providing system reliability and safety. ComEd is promoting constructs that will move it towards transparent and liquid markets to allow for power procurement that will be deemed prudent, provide consumers assurance of equitable pricing and ensure cost recoverability. At the same time, ComEd is attempting to establish a regulatory framework for the post 2006 timeframe. Currently, it is difficult to predict the framework for, or the outcome of, a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates after 2006. In 2004, the ICC initiated and conducted a workshop process to consider issues related to retail electric service in the post transition period (i.e., post 2006). Issues addressed included utility wholesale supply procurement methodology, rates, competition and utility service obligations. All interested parties were invited to participate. The end result was a report to the Illinois General Assembly which was generally supportive of continuing under the existing regulatory framework and of utilities procuring supply through a full requirements, vertical tranche, descending clock auction process with full recovery of the supply costs from retail customers. In 2005, utilities including ComEd, are expected to begin to seek regulatory approval of structures that implement the methodologies supported by the report or such other proposals as they may choose to make. ComEd intends to make various filings during 2005 to begin the process to establish rates for the post transition period. ComEd currently expects that these filings will include a proposal consistent with the auction process described above. All such methodologies and proposals will be subject to regulatory approval. ComEd cannot predict which particular proposal or proposals will be approved. Pennsylvania. In Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act) provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customers bills as a mechanism for utilities to recover their allowed stranded costs. CTCs are assessed to and collected from virtually all retail customers who access PECOs transmission and distribution systems. These CTCs are assessed regardless of whether the customer purchases electricity from PECO or an alternative electric supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that PECOs right to collect CTCs is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs were awarded, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. PECO has been authorized by the PUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. At December 31, 2004, approximately $3.9 billion had yet to be recovered. Recovery of transition charges for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. Amortization of PECOs stranded cost recovery, which is a regulatory asset, is included in depreciation and amortization expense. PECOs results will be adversely affected over the remaining transition period ending December 31, 2010 by the steadily increasing amortization of stranded costs. The following table (amounts in millions) indicates the estimated revenues and amortization expense associated with CTC collection and stranded cost recovery through 2010. Year EstimatedCTC Revenue Estimated StrandedCost Amortization 2005 $ 808 $ 404 2006 903 550 2007 910 619 2008 917 697 2009 924 783 2010 932 880 104 By the end of 2010, PECO will have fully recovered all of the stranded costs authorized by the PUC. As a result, PECO expects that both its revenues and expenses will decrease in 2011. PECOs transmission and distribution rates are capped through 2006, while PECOs generation rates are capped through 2010. The end of these transition periods involves uncertainties, including the nature of PECOs POLR obligations and the source and pricing of generation services to be provided by PECO. PECO will continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. PECO will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements PECO has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. PECO will also work to ensure that its rates are adequate to cover its costs of obtaining electric power and energy from its suppliers, which could include Generation, for the costs associated with procuring full requirements power given PECOs POLR obligations. As in the past, by working together with all interested parties, PECO believes it can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers; however, if PECO is unsuccessful, its results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected after the transition periods. Energy Deliverys ability to successfully manage the end of the transition period may affect its capital structure. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2004. This goodwill was recognized and recorded in connection with the PECO / Unicom Merger. Under GAAP, the goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. Under Illinois law, any impairment of goodwill has no impact on the determination of ComEds rate cap through the transition period. Goodwill was not impaired at Exelon or ComEd during 2004. Exelons goodwill impairment test considers the cash flows of the entire Energy Delivery business segment, including both ComEd and PECO, and not just of ComEd; accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge at ComEd may not affect Exelons results of operations. However, based on certain anticipated reductions to cash flows (primarily reductions in CTCs) subsequent to ComEds regulatory transition period, there is a reasonable possibility that goodwill will be impaired at ComEd, and possibly at Exelon, in 2005 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, market prices for power, post 2006 rate regulatory structures, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. Energy Delivery is and will continue to be involved in regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for its services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of Energy Deliverys costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, Energy Delivery looks 105 for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grants some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. Energy Deliverys business is affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. The electric utility industry in the United States is in transition. As a result of both legislative initiatives as well as competitive pressures, the industry has been moving from a fully regulated industry, consisting primarily of vertically integrated companies that combine generation, transmission and distribution, to a partially restructured industry, consisting of competitive wholesale generation markets and continued regulation of transmission and distribution. Due to a number of factors, these developments have been somewhat uneven across the states. Both Illinois and Pennsylvania have adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity, but a large number of other states have not changed their regulatory structures. Regional Transmission Organizations and Standard Market Platform. The FERC required jurisdictional utilities to provide open access to their transmission systems as early as the late 1980s. Subsequently, the FERC encouraged the voluntary development of RTOs and the elimination of trade barriers between regions. RTOs provide transmission service. Transmission owners remain responsible for maintaining and operating their transmission facilities, under the direction of RTOs, and recover their revenue requirements through the RTOs. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM, a FERC approved RTO operating in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. RTOs direct the dispatch of generation units as a means of centrally managing congestion on transmission systems without curtailing service. RTOs also manage transparent and competitive short term energy markets. The FERCs efforts to promote RTOs throughout the states has generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. In addition, efforts to develop an RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. Notwithstanding these difficulties, MISO has been certified as a RTO by the FERC. MISO is attempting to develop central generation dispatch and transmission operations across the Midwestern United States, contiguous to PJMs footprint. The FERC has ordered the elimination of rate barriers and protocol differences between MISO and PJM. Energy Delivery supports the development of RTOs and implementation of standard market protocols for these regions, and others, but cannot predict their success or whether they will lead to the development of the envisioned large, successful wholesale markets. The development of large competitive wholesale electricity markets would facilitate an auction to meet ComEds and PECOs POLR load obligations with reliable wholesale electricity supply when their long term supply contracts with Generation expire. In the meantime, Energy Deliverys transmission facilities are being operated by PJM successfully with little impact on ComEds or PECOs transmission rates and revenues. Proposed Federal Energy Legislation. Attempts have been made to adopt comprehensive Federal energy legislation that, among other things, would repeal PUHCA, create incentives for the construction of transmission infrastructure, encourage but not mandate standardized competitive markets and expand the authority of the FERC to include overseeing the reliability of the bulk power system. Exelon cannot predict whether comprehensive energy legislation will be adopted and, if adopted, the final form of that legislation. Exelon would expect that comprehensive energy legislation would, if adopted, significantly affect the electric utility industry and its businesses. Such legislation did not pass Congress during 2004 but is expected to be reintroduced in Congress in early 2005. Energy Delivery must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Increases in both customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of Energy Deliverys delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the 106 equipment or facilities used in its delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures of Energy Deliverys systems or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, could affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and Energy Deliverys maintenance and capital expenditures, and expose Energy Delivery to claims by customers and others. Regulated utilities that are required to provide service to all customers and others within their service territory have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. Energy Delivery has lost and may continue to lose energy customers and related revenue to other generation suppliers, although Energy Delivery continues to provide delivery services. Energy Deliverys retail electric customers may purchase their generation supply from alternative electric suppliers, although Energy Delivery remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to customers in its service territories regardless of their generation supplier. As of December 31, 2004, no alternative electric supplier had approval from the ICC, and no electric utilities had chosen to enter the ComEd residential market for the supply of electricity. ComEd and PECO are each generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in their service territories at fixed rates or, in some instances, market derived rates. In addition, customers who take service from an alternative electric supplier may later return to ComEd or PECO. The number of customers taking service from alternative electric suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that ComEd and PECO are authorized to charge by their state regulatory commissions. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different electric supplier, Energy Deliverys revenues are likely to decline, and revenues and gross margins could vary from period to period. Energy Deliverys post transition period and provider of last resort obligations add uncertainty to planning its electricity supply needs and its ability to manage the related costs of that supply. In 2004, the ICC initiated and conducted a workshop process to consider issues related to retail electric service in the post transition period (i.e., post 2006). Issues addressed included utility wholesale supply procurement methodology, rates, competition and utility service obligations. All interested parties were invited to participate. The end result was a report to the Illinois General Assembly which was generally supportive of continuing under the existing regulatory framework and of utilities procuring supply through a full requirements, vertical tranche, descending clock auction process with full recovery of the supply costs from retail customers. In 2005, utilities, including ComEd, are expected to begin to seek regulatory approval of structures that implement the methodologies supported by the report or such other proposals as they may choose to make. ComEd intends to make various filings during 2005 to begin the process to establish rates for the post transition period. These filings will include a proposal consistent with the auction process described above. All such methodologies and proposals will be subject to regulatory approval. ComEd cannot predict which particular proposals will be approved. Because ComEd and PECO customers can switch, that is, within limits they can choose an alternative electric supplier and then return to either ComEd or PECO and then go back to an alternative electric supplier, and so on, planning for Energy Delivery has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. Energy Delivery has no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. Energy Delivery manages its POLR obligation through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation supplies the 107 power requirements of ComEd and PECO. Also, Energy Delivery has sought through the regulatory process, as permitted by law, to retain the POLR obligation to customers who do not have competitive supply options and limit the POLR obligation for those customers that do have competitive supply options. In 2003, ComEd received ICC approval to phase out over several years its obligation to provide fixed price energy under bundled rates to approximately 370 of its largest energy customers, which have demands of at least three MWs and represent an aggregate of approximately 2,500 MWs of load. To date, ComEd has not requested to phase out its obligation to provide fixed price energy under bundled rates for other customers but continues to evaluate its options, particularly with respect to customers having energy demands of one to three MWs. A mandatory renewable portfolio standard (RPS) could affect the cost of electricity purchased and sold by Energy Delivery. Renewable and alternative fuel sources such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal are anticipated to have an increasingly important role in creating fuel diversity in the generation of electricity. Federal or state legislation mandating a RPS could result in significant changes in Energy Deliverys business, including fuel cost and capital expenditures. Energy Delivery continues to monitor discussions related to RPSs at the Federal and state levels. For additional information, see Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards in Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Weather affects electricity and gas usage and, consequently, Energy Deliverys results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below moderate levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. As a corollary, moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, Energy Delivery typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme summer conditions or storms may stress Energy Deliverys transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting its ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on Energy Deliverys operations. Economic conditions and activity in Energy Deliverys service territories directly affect the demand for electricity and gas. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of Energy Deliverys customers and their average use of energy. Periods of recessionary economic conditions may adversely affect Energy Deliverys results of operations. Retail electric and gas sales growth on an annual basis is expected to be between 1% and 2% in the service territories of ComEd and PECO. Generation Generation is focused on efficiently providing reliable power through a generation portfolio with fuel and dispatch diversity. Generations directive is to continue to increase fleet output and to improve fleet efficiency while sustaining operational safety. Generations Power Team manages the output of Generations assets and energy sales to optimize value and reduce the volatility of Generations earnings and cash flows. Exelon believes that Generation will provide a steady source of earnings through its low cost operations and will take advantage of higher wholesale prices when they can be 108 realized. More detailed explanations for each of these and other challenges in managing the Generation business are as follows: Generation must effectively manage its power portfolio to meet its contractual commitments and to handle changes in the wholesale power markets. The majority of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under long term purchase power agreements with ComEd and PECO. To the extent portions of the portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent that its portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of ComEd and PECO, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results are dependent upon its ability to cost effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, to manage its power portfolio and to effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation must effectively plan for the elimination of significant purchase power arrangements post 2006. Generation sells a significant portion of its output to ComEd and PECO under long term purchase power agreements. As a result of the continuing transition from a regulated environment, the agreement with ComEd, which expires at the end of 2006, is unlikely to be replaced with a similar arrangement. If the agreement is not replaced, Generation may need to sell more power at market based prices. Illinois has considered both regulated and competitive models for the post transition periods, including an auction based model and new contractual arrangements with third parties, which may have shorter durations and lower volume sales. A regulated model may not adequately compensate Generation for its investment in its generating facilities. Increased market sales and new contractual arrangements under a competitive model may adversely affect Generations credit risk due to an increase in the number of customers and the loss of a highly predictable revenue source. The scope and scale of Generations nuclear generating resources provide a cost advantage in meeting contractual commitments and enable Generation to sell power in the wholesale markets. Generations resources include interests in 11 nuclear generation stations, consisting of 19 units. Generations nuclear fleet generated 136,621 GWhs, or more than half of Generations total output, for the year ended December 31, 2004. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generations nuclear plants benefit from stable fuel costs, minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history. Generations financial performance may be affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. The ownership and operation of nuclear facilities involve risks as further described below. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to low fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear generating facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have a higher operating cost than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. 109 Refueling outages. Outages at nuclear stations to replenish fuel require the station to be turned off. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 25 days in duration. Generation has significantly decreased the length of refueling outages in recent years; however, when refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 25 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the AmerGen plants and the co owned Salem plant operated by PSEG, will increase from ten in 2004 to eleven in 2005; however, the projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants will decrease in 2005 from 2004 by approximately $40 million. Maintenance expenditures are expected to increase by approximately $15 million in 2005 compared to 2004 as a result of the increased number of planned nuclear outages. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization and or increased outage costs. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Spent nuclear fuel storage. Generation incurs costs on an annual basis for the storage of spent nuclear fuel. Under the terms of the settlement reached with the DOE in 2004, Generation will be reimbursed for costs of spent fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE under the settlement. Also, the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may affect the ability to fully decommission the nuclear units. License Renewals. Generations nuclear facilities are currently operating under 40 year Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) licenses. Generation has applied for and received 20 year renewals for the licenses that will be expiring in the next ten years, excluding licenses for the AmerGen facilities. Generation has received 20 year renewals of the operating licenses for the Peach Bottom 2 and 3, Dresden 2 and 3 and Quad Cities 1 and 2 Units. In December 2004, the NRC issued an order that will permit Oyster Creek to operate beyond its license expiration in April 2009 if the NRC has not completed reviewing the application for renewal. The application for Oyster Creeks license renewal is anticipated to be filed by August 2005 in order to comply with this agreement. Generation intends to evaluate opportunities, as permitted by the NRC, to apply for license renewals for some or all of the remaining licenses. If the renewals are granted, Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of the renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. Management believes the current status of Yucca Mountain will not impact Generations ability to renew the licenses for its nuclear plants. However, should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in 110 increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. On January 28, 2004, the NRC issued a letter requesting PSEG to conduct a review of its Salem facility, of which Generation owns 42.59%, to assess the workplace environment for raising and addressing safety issues. PSEG responded to the letter on February 28, 2004, and had independent assessments of the work environment at the facility performed. Assessment results were provided to the NRC in May 2004. The assessments concluded that Salem was safe for continued operation, but also identified issues that needed to be addressed. At an NRC public meeting on June 16, 2004, PSEG outlined its action plans to address these issues, which focus on safety conscious work environment, the corrective action program and work management. A letter documenting these plans and commitments was sent to the NRC on June 25, 2004. On July 30, 2004, the NRC provided a letter to PSEG indicating that it had completed its review. The letter indicated that the NRC has not identified any safety violations and that it appears that the PSEG action plan will address the key findings of both the NRC and PSEG assessments. On August 30, 2004, the NRC provided PSEG with its mid cycle performance reviews of Salem, which detailed the NRCs plan for enhanced oversight related to the work environment. The letter indicated the NRC plans to continue with this heightened oversight until PSEG has concluded that substantial, sustainable progress has been made, and the NRC has completed a review that confirms PSEGs conclusions. Under the NRC oversight program, among other things, PSEG provided the NRC with a report of its progress at a public meeting in December 2004, and began publishing quarterly metrics to demonstrate performance in the fourth quarter of 2004. The next public meeting is scheduled for spring 2005. The spent fuel pool at each Salem unit has an installed leakage collection system. This normal leakage path was found to be obstructed, causing concern about the extent of leakage contact with the fuel handling buildings concrete structure. PSEG is developing a solution to maintain the design function of the leakage collection system and is investigating the extent of any structural degradation caused by the leakage. The investigation should take approximately one year. If any significant degradation is identified, the repair costs to the owners of the facility could be material. The NRC issued Information Notice 2004 05 in March 2004 concerning this emerging industry issue and Generation cannot predict what further actions the NRC may take on this matter. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generations, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The limit as of December 31, 2004 is $10.76 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear 111 liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. Although the Price Anderson Act has expired, only facilities applying for NRC licenses subsequent to its expiration are affected. Existing commercial generating facilities, such as those owned and operated by Generation, remain subject to the provisions of the Price Anderson Act. Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2004 was $40 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, other than AmerGen facilities, the ICC permits ComEd and the PUC permits PECO to collect funds from their customers, which are deposited in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation. These funds, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. The ICC permitted ComEd to recover $73 million per year from retail customers for decommissioning for the years 2001 through 2004 and, depending upon the portion of the output of certain generating stations taken by ComEd, up to $73 million annually in 2005 and 2006. Because ComEd is not expected to take all of the output of these stations, actual collections are expected to be less than $73 million annually in 2005 and 2006. Subsequent to 2006, there will be no further recoveries of decommissioning costs from ComEds customers. PECO is currently recovering $33 million annually for nuclear decommissioning. Generation expects that these collections will continue through the operating license life of each of the former PECO units, with adjustments every five years to reflect changes in cost estimates and decommissioning trust fund performance. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin in 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $5.3 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2004. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) with scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2004, Generations 23 units met the NRCs Funding Levels. Generation will submit its next biennial report to the NRC in March 2005. In 2003, the General Accounting Office (GAO) published a study on the NRCs need for more effective analyses to ensure the adequate accumulation of funds to decommission nuclear power plants in the United States. As it has in the past, the GAO concluded that accumulated and future proposed funding was inadequate to achieve NRC Funding Levels at a number of U.S. nuclear plants, including a number of Generations plants. Generation has reviewed the GAOs report and believes that, in reaching its conclusions, the GAO did not consider all aspects of Generations decommissioning strategy, such as fund growth during the decommissioning period. The inclusion of estimated earnings growth on Generations nuclear trust funds during the decommissioning period virtually eliminates any funding shortfalls identified in the GAO report. Generation currently believes that the amounts in nuclear decommissioning trust funds and future collections from ratepayers, together with earnings thereon, will provide adequate funding to 112 decommission its nuclear facilities in accordance with regulatory requirements. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, when decommissioning activities are initiated, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to identify other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Generation relies on the availability of electric transmission facilities that it does not own or control to deliver its wholesale electric power to the purchasers of the power. Generation depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other companies, including ComEd and PECO, to deliver the power that it sells at wholesale. If transmission at these facilities is disrupted or transmission capacity is inadequate, Generation may not be able to sell and deliver its wholesale power. While Generation was not significantly affected by the failure in the transmission grid that served a large portion of the Northeastern United States and Canada during the August 2003 blackout, the North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at a point within the grid can cause a systemic response that results in an extensive power outage. If a regions power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, Generations recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. In addition, if restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. Generation also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. Generation is directly affected by price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation that is not used to meet its commitments to ComEd and PECO are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. In the event that lower wholesale prices of electricity reduce Generations current or forecasted cash flows, the carrying value of Generations generating units may be determined to be impaired and Generation would be required to incur an impairment loss. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money or energy will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. 113 In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell power in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. These policies include counterparty credit limits and, in some cases, require deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for netting of payables and receivables with the majority of its large counterparties. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The integration of the retail businesses of Exelon Energy subjects Generation to credit risk resulting from a new customer base. Immature Markets. Certain wholesale spot markets are new and evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. While the FERC has proposed initiatives to standardize wholesale spot markets, Generation cannot predict whether that effort will be successful, what form any of these markets will eventually take or what roles Generation will play in them. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. The Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. This activity, along with the effects of any specialized accounting for trading contracts, may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements to ComEd and PECO. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generation incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Excess capacity. Energy prices are also affected by the amount of supply available in a region. In the markets where Generation sells power, there has been a significant increase in the number of new power plants commencing commercial operations in recent years. An excess supply situation can lead to conditions with reduced wholesale market prices. Generations business is also affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations and Standard Market Platform. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which 114 Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features which may create trading barriers among the markets. The FERC has proposed initiatives, including RTOs, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers. The FERCs effort to promote RTOs throughout the states has generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. In addition, efforts to develop a RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. Generation supports the development of RTOs and implementation of standard market protocols for these regions, and others, but cannot predict their success or whether they will lead to the development of the envisioned large, successful wholesale markets. Approximately 79% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM, following PJMs expansion to the Midwest markets in 2004. The PJM market has been the most successful and liquid regional market. Generations future results of operations may be affected by the successful expansion of that market to the Midwest and the implementation of any market changes mandated by the FERC. Provider of Last Resort. As discussed above, ComEd and PECO each have POLR obligations that they have effectively transferred to Generation through full requirements contracts. Because the choice of electricity generation supplier lies with the customer, planning to meet these obligations has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. It is difficult for Generation to plan the energy demand of ComEd and PECO customers. The uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd and PECO load for which Generation must prepare increases Generations costs and may limit its sales opportunities. A significant under estimation of the electric load requirements of ComEd and PECO could result in Generation not having enough power to cover its supply obligation, in which case Generation would be required to buy power from third parties or in the spot markets at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be as favorable or as manageable as Generations long term supply expenses and thus could increase Generations total costs. As the demand for energy rises in the future, it may be necessary to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Both Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built at the risk of market participants. Any construction of new generating facilities by Generation would be subject to market concentration tests administered by the FERC. Effective management of capital projects is important to Generations business. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. The inability of Generation to effectively manage its capital projects could adversely affect Generations results of operations. The interaction between the energy delivery and generation businesses provides Exelon a partial hedge of wholesale energy market prices. The price of power purchased and sold in the open wholesale energy markets can vary significantly in response to market conditions. The amounts of power that Generation provides to ComEd and PECO vary from month to month; however, delivery requirements are generally highest in the summer when wholesale power prices are also generally highest. Therefore, energy committed by 115 Generation to serve ComEd and PECO customers is not exposed to the price uncertainty of the open wholesale energy market. Generally, between 60% and 70% of Generations supply serves ComEd and PECO customers. Consequently, Generation has limited its earnings exposure from the volatility of the wholesale energy market to the energy generated in excess of the ComEd and PECO requirements, as well as any other contracted longer term obligations. As its business continues to evolve, Generation is exploring other long term contracts or arrangements, which arrangements could limit its earnings opportunity if market prices are significantly different than its expectations. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. In recent years, IPPs and the generation companies of disaggregated utilities have installed new generating capacity at a pace greater than the growth of electricity demand. These new generating facilities may be more efficient than Generations facilities. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. Power Teams risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its power trading activities. Power Teams power trading (including fuel procurement and power marketing) activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage its exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always be followed or may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be wrong or inaccurate. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its power trading and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. General Business The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. The Registrants may continue to pursue investments that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. On December 20, 2004, Exelon announced the execution of the Merger Agreement with PSEG. Exelon and PSEG entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the Merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and PSEG are integrated in an efficient and effective manner, as well as general competitive factors in the market place. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. 116 Before the Merger may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from FERC, the SEC, the NRC and various utility regulatory, antitrust and other authorities in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. The governmental authorities from which these approvals are required may impose conditions on completion of the Merger or require changes to the terms of the Merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company and or the individual registrants following the Merger, any of which might have a material adverse effect on the combined company or the individual registrants following completion of the Merger. Additionally, the Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Exelon and PSEG, and further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, (1) Exelon may be required to pay PSEG a termination fee of $400 million plus PSEGs transaction expenses up to $40 million and (2) PSEG may be required to pay Exelon a termination fee of $400 million plus Exelons transaction expenses up to $40 million. Among the factors considered by the board of directors of Exelon in connection with its approvals of the Merger Agreement were the benefits as well as the risks that could result from the Merger. Exelon cannot give any assurance that these benefits will be realized within the time periods contemplated or even that they will be realized at all. The Registrants results of operations may be affected by the divestiture of businesses and facilities. The Registrants may decide to divest businesses or facilities that do not fit with their strategic objectives or improve their financial performance, such as the sale of Generations interest in Sithe and the divestiture or wind down of the remaining businesses of Enterprises. The Registrants may be unable to successfully divest or wind down these businesses and facilities for a number of reasons, including an inability to locate appropriate buyers or to negotiate acceptable terms for transactions. In addition, the amount that the Registrants may realize from a divestiture of a business or a facility is subject to fluctuating market conditions that may contribute to pricing and other terms that may be materially different than expected and could result in losses on sales. The Registrants also face risks in managing these businesses prior to their divestitures due to potential turnover of key employees and operating the businesses through their transition. The Registrants may also incur costs related to the wind down of businesses that will not be sold or unfavorable post close purchase price adjustments related to divestitures. Results of operations are affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. As a result of the rate freezes and caps under which the Energy Delivery business operates and price pressures due to competition, Energy Delivery may not be able to pass the costs of inflation through to its customers. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, which are increasing at a rate that greatly exceeds the rate of general inflation. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. Market performance affects decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under pension and postretirement benefit plans and to decommission Generations nuclear plants. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase the funding requirements of these obligations. 117 Regulations imposed by the SEC under PUHCA affect business operations. Exelon is subject to regulation by the SEC under PUHCA as a result of its ownership of ComEd and PECO. That regulation affects Exelons ability to: diversify, by generally restricting investments to traditional electric and gas utility businesses and related businesses; invest in or operate SEC approved, non utility companies beyond authorized financial and operating thresholds; issue securities, by requiring the prior approval of the SEC or, for ComEd and PECO, requiring the approval of state regulatory commissions; engage in transactions among affiliates without the SECs prior approval and, then, only at cost, since the PUHCA regulates business between affiliates in a utility holding company system; make dividend payments in specified situations; make intercompany loans in specified companies; restructure capitalization to the extent the equity ratio falls below 30%; and operate with a complex corporate structure. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which they conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. They believe that they have a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, they have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, they are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had reserves for environmental investigation and remediation costs of $124 million, $61 million, $47 million and $16 million, respectively, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. The Registrants have accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that are believed prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but the Registrants cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover their environmental liabilities. The Registrants cannot predict whether they will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by them, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. In July 2004, the EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. This rule establishes national requirements for reducing the adverse environmental impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing power plants. The rule identifies particular standards of performance with respect to entrainment and impingement and requires each facility to monitor and validate this performance in future years. All of Exelons power generation facilities with cooling water systems are subject to the regulations. Facilities without closed cycle recirculating systems are potentially most affected. Those facilities are Clinton, Cromby, 118 Dresden, Eddystone, Fairless Hills, Handley, Mountain Creek, New Boston, Oyster Creek, Peach Bottom, Quad Cities, and Salem. Exelon is currently evaluating compliance options at its affected plants. At this time, Exelon cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the Phase II rule requirements will have on the operation of Generations generating facilities and its future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There are many factors to be considered and evaluated to determine the extent to which there will be financial and operational impacts. The considerations and evaluations include, but are not limited to obtaining clarifying interpretations of the requirements from state regulators, resolving outstanding litigation proceedings concerning the requirements, completing studies to establish biological baselines for each facility, and performing environmental and economic cost benefit evaluation of the potential compliance alternatives in accordance with the requirements. In June 2001, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) issued a renewed NPDES permit for Salem, expiring in July 2006, allowing for the continued operation of Salem with its existing cooling water system. An application for renewal of that permit, including a demonstration of compliance with the requirements of the recently published Federal Water Pollution Control Act Section 316(b) regulations, must be submitted to NJDEP by February 2, 2006 unless the NJDEP grants additional time to collect information to comply with the new regulations. NJDEP advised PSEG in a letter dated July 12, 2004 that it strongly recommends reducing cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed cycle cooling as a compliance option for Salem. PSEG has not made a determination regarding how it will demonstrate compliance with the Section 316(b) regulations. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations requires the retrofitting of Salems cooling water intake structure to reduce cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed cycle cooling, the retrofit and any resulting cost of interim replacement power could result in material costs of compliance to the owners of the facility. For additional information regarding environmental matters, see Environmental Regulation in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. The Registrants must actively manage the security of their people and facilities. As a result of the events of September 11, 2001, the electric industry has developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council, developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the United States Department of Energy and which may become mandatory through regulation or legislation. The gas industry, through the American Gas Association, developed physical security guidelines that were accepted by the United States Department of Transportation. Generation has also initiated security measures, including implementation of measures mandated by the NRC for the nuclear facilities, to safeguard its employees and critical operations and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of its energy production and delivery systems. These security measures have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in increased costs. On a continuing basis, Generation evaluates enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assesses long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expense to develop and implement. Changes in the availability and cost of insurance mean that the Registrants have greater exposure to economic loss due to property damage and liability. The Registrants carry property damage and liability insurance for their properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to terrorist acts, the 119 available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, the costs of obtaining such insurance may be higher and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. The Registrants are self insured for deductibles and to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under their property damage and liability insurance, together with the deductible, would negatively affect their results of operations. Taxation has a significant impact on results of operations. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and their ongoing operations to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants must also assess their ability to generate capital gains in future periods to realize tax benefits associated with capital losses previously generated or expected to be generated in future periods. Capital losses may be deducted only to the extent of capital gains realized during the year of the loss or during the three prior or five succeeding years. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. Generation has recorded valuation allowances against certain deferred assets associated with capital losses due to the consolidation of Sithe. Increases in state income taxes. Due to the revenue needs of the states in which the Registrants operate, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being contemplated. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase state income tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Exelon has purchased interests in three synthetic fuel producing facilities, which increased Exelons net income by $70 million in 2004. Tax credits generated by the production of synthetic fuel are subject to a phase out provision that gradually reduces tax credits as the annual average wellhead price per barrel of domestic crude oil increases into an inflation adjusted phase out range. If domestic crude oil prices remain high in 2005, the tax credits and net income generated by the investments may be reduced substantially. In addition, Exelon has recorded an intangible asset related to its investments in these facilities with a net carrying value of $208 million at December 31, 2004 that could become impaired if domestic crude oil prices continue to increase in the future. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties that may result in substantial cost in the event of non performance. Exelon and its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance by the third parties to these guarantees, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance could have a material impact on the financial statements of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding guarantees. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 120 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. Exelon and Generation are also exposed to market risks associated with commodity and equity prices. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity security prices. Exelons RMC sets forth risk management policies and objectives and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers from each of Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, ComEd and Generation) Commodity price risk is associated with market price movements resulting from excess or insufficient generation, changes in fuel costs, market liquidity and other factors. Trading activities and non trading marketing activities include the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels, including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. The availability and prices of energy and energy related commodities are subject to fluctuations due to factors such as weather, governmental environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and Federal regulatory policies and other events. Additionally, ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to CTC revenues collected from its customers. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including Energy Deliverys retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being cash flow hedged is three years. Generation has an estimated 90% hedge ratio in 2005 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to Energy Deliverys retail load. Energy Deliverys retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods Generations amount hedged declines to meet its commitment to Energy Delivery. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity is approximately a $32 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes a 90% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into 121 purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted in an immaterial impact on earnings that included a $3 million (before income taxes) unrealized mark to market gain. The daily Value at Risk (VaR) on proprietary trading activity averaged $100,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin of $3,768 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Most non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133 discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Those that do not are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI) and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 and the ineffective portion of hedge contracts are recognized in current earnings. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated OCI and recognized in earnings as the hedged transactions occur. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as shown in the previous table, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2003 $ (163 ) Total change in fair value during 2003 of contracts recorded in earnings 206 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (227 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 273 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (305 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2003 (216 ) Total change in fair value during 2004 of contracts recorded in earnings 158 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (197 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 475 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (512 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market 147 Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2004 $ (145 ) 122 The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2004 and 2003: December 31, 2004 2003 Current assets $ 403 $ 322 Noncurrent assets 373 100 Total mark to market energy contract assets 776 422 Current liabilities (a) (598 ) (505 ) Noncurrent liabilities (323 ) (133 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (921 ) (638 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities $ (145 ) $ (216 ) (a) Mark to market energy contract liabilities at December 31, 2003 do not reflect a $76 million interest rate swap that was included in current mark to market derivative liabilities within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2004 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 123 The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net liabilities, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within (in millions) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ (3 ) Prices provided by other external sources (190 ) (27 ) (4 ) (221 ) Total $ (194 ) $ (26 ) $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ (224 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ 11 $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ $ 9 Prices provided by other external sources (23 ) 6 1 (16 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 7 11 8 11 11 38 86 Total $ (5 ) $ 15 $ 9 $ 11 $ 11 $ 38 $ 79 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. 124 The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2004. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations andHedging Activities Interest Rate andOther Hedges Total CashFlow Hedges Accumulated OCI, January 1, 2003 $ (114 ) $ (14 ) $ (128 ) Changes in fair value (186 ) (2 ) (188 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net loss 167 167 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2003 (133 ) (16 ) (149 ) Changes in fair value (312 ) 17 (295 ) Disposal of existing Boston Generating contracts 16 16 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 290 290 Exelon Energy Company opening balance 2 2 Sithe Energies, Inc. opening balance (10 ) (10 ) Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2004 $ (137 ) $ (9 ) $ (146 ) ComEd ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to revenue collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO. Revenues collected from customers electing the PPO include commodity charges at market based prices and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. Because the change in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by the change in CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. ComEds CTC revenues are also collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. ComEds CTC rates are reset once a year in the spring, and customers can elect to lock in their CTC rates for a one or multiple year terms. Based on the current customers who have elected the one year CTC rates, ComEd has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the net impact of a 10% increase in the average market price of electricity from June 2005 through December 2005 which would result in a $5 million decrease in CTC revenues in 2005. A 10% decrease from June 2005 through December 2005 in market prices would result in a $5 million increase in CTC revenues in 2005. The result may be significantly affected if additional customers elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or if customers elect to purchase their energy from ComEd. Credit Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) ComEd and PECO Credit risk for Energy Delivery is managed by the credit and collection policies of ComEd and PECO, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently 125 obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. For the year ended December 31, 2004, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 2% of its retail electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 7% of its retail electric and gas revenues. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Generation Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2004 and 2003. They further delineate that exposure by the credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through ISOs which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2004 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 151 $ 33 $ 118 $ Non investment grade 98 20 78 1 63 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 3 3 Total $ 265 $ 53 $ 212 1 $ 63 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. 126 Rating as of December 31, 2003 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 116 $ $ 116 1 $ 20 Non investment grade 22 7 15 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 152 $ 7 $ 145 1 $ 20 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure and forward credit exposure related to Exelon Energy. Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2004 (a) Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 149 $ 2 $ $ 151 Non investment grade 91 7 98 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 3 3 Total $ 256 $ 9 $ $ 265 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Dynegy. As previously disclosed, at December 31, 2004, Generation was counterparty to Dynegy in various energy transactions and had financial and credit risk associated with Dynegy through Generations investment in Sithe. On January 31, 2005, Generation sold its investment in Sithe and, accordingly, is no longer subject to potential credit risk associated with Dynegys performance under the financial swap arrangement that Dynegy had with Sithe. See Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations sale of Sithe. Generation previously disclosed the future economic value of AmerGens purchased power arrangement with Illinois Power Company (Illinois Power), a subsidiary of Dynegy, could be affected by events related to Dynegys financial condition. On September 30, 2004, Dynegy sold Illinois Power to a third party with an investment grade rating, which eliminated Generations credit risk associated with Illinois Power and Dynegy. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may 127 be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets, which are administered by ISOs: PJM, ISO New England, New York ISO, California ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheet included a $486 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2004. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1,492 million, less unearned income of $1,006 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Variable Rate Debt. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2004, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $2 million decrease in Exelons pre tax earnings. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a decrease in pre tax earnings of less than $1 million at ComEd, PECO and Generation. Cash Flow Hedges. In September and October 2004, Exelon entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. At the time of the swap trades, the debt issuance that these swaps were hedging was considered probable; therefore, Exelon accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as cash flow hedges. In December 2004, it became apparent that the timing of the debt issuance would be deferred until 2005 and, consequently, Exelon unwound the $240 million forward starting interest rate swaps. Exelon recognized an ineffectiveness gain of less than $1 million pursuant to SFAS No. 133. Additionally, Exelon paid approximately $4 million to the counterparties due to the swap unwind. The net loss resulting from the amount paid to the counterparties less the ineffectiveness gain will be amortized over the life of the new debt issuance. Based upon a revised date of expected debt issuance, Exelon entered into a new series of forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $200 million. At December 31, 2004, these interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, had an aggregate fair market value of $2 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at 128 December 31, 2004. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to Exelon. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2004 is estimated to be $6 million in the counterparties favor. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount Exelon would pay the counterparties. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2004 is estimated to be $10 million in Exelons favor. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount the counterparties would pay Exelon. In 2004, PECO entered into a forward starting interest rate swap in the aggregate notional amount of $75 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of a future financing. The debt issuance that this swap was hedging was considered probable; therefore, PECO accounted for this interest rate swap transaction as a hedge. PECO settled this swap designated as a cash flow hedge for net proceeds of approximately $5 million. The proceeds were recorded in other comprehensive income and are being amortized over the life of the debt issuance. At December 31, 2004, ComEd, PECO and Generation did not have any interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges. Fair Value Hedges. In 2004, ComEd entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps in order to maintain its targeted percentage of variable rate debt associated with fixed rate debt issuances in the aggregate amount of $240 million. At December 31, 2004, these interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, had an aggregate fair market value of $9 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2004. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2004 is estimated to be $16 million in ComEds favor. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount the counterparties would pay ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2004 is estimated to be $1 million in ComEds favor. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount the counterparties would pay ComEd. In 2004, ComEd settled certain interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate amount of $485 million for total proceeds of approximately $32 million, which included a $26 million settlement amount and $6 million of accrued interest. The $26 million settlement amount will be amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2004, Generations 129 decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $329 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 130 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation The Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and New Accounting Pronouncement sections presented below indicate the registrant or registrants to which each policy, estimate or accounting standard is applicable. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Registrants Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Nuclear Decommissioning (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate the fair value of its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that fair value, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model considering multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of costs and the timing of decommissioning activities validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Cost Escalation Studies. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost levels and various timing scenarios. The probability of various timing scenarios incorporate the factors of current license lives, anticipated license renewals and the timing of DOE acceptance for disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation recorded and could affect future updates to the decommissioning obligation to be recorded in the consolidated financial statements. For example, the 20 year average cost escalation rates used in the current ARO calculation approximate 3% to 4%. A uniform increase in these escalation rates of 25 basis points would increase the total ARO recorded by Exelon by 46 approximately 11% or more than $400 million. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on an ongoing basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash flows. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Note 1 and Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The FASB has issued an exposure draft of proposed interpretations of SFAS No. 143. The exposure draft addresses the accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations. The proposed guidance is not anticipated to have any impact on Generations asset retirement obligations for nuclear decommissioning but may result in the recording of liabilities at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation for conditional legal obligations meeting the scope of the interpretation. Asset Impairments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2004, which relates entirely to the goodwill recorded upon the acquisition of ComEd. Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires managements judgments, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. Exelon and ComEd performed their annual assessments of goodwill impairment as of November 1, 2004 and determined that goodwill was not impaired. Exelon assesses goodwill impairment at its Energy Delivery reporting unit; accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge at ComEd may not necessarily affect Exelons results of operations as the goodwill impairment test for Exelon considers the cash flows of the entire consolidated Energy Delivery business segment, which includes both ComEd and PECO. In the assessments, Exelon and ComEd estimated the fair value of the Energy Delivery and ComEd reporting units using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The fair value determination is dependent on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, the capital structures of Energy Delivery and ComEd, market prices for power, post 2006 rate regulatory structures, operating and capital expenditure requirements, and other factors. Changes in assumptions regarding these variables or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of approximately 10% in Energy Deliverys and ComEds expected discounted cash flows would result in no impairment at Exelon, but an estimated impairment of goodwill of approximately $1.7 billion at ComEd. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power and costs of fuel. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. 47 Investments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had approximately $6,066 million, $91 million, $109 million and $5,365 million, respectively, of investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2004. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation consider investments to be impaired when a decline in fair value below cost is judged to be other than temporary. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, they evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, as well as their intent and ability to hold the investment. The Registrants also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to essentially all ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC employees and certain Enterprises employees. See Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for Exelons defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation, and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon utilizes assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increases and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.00% in 2004 and 2003 compared to 9.50% for 2002. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs ranged from 8.33% to 8.35% in 2004 compared to 8.40% in 2003 and 8.80% for 2002. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index was used as the basis in selecting the discount rate for determining the plan obligations, using 5.75%, 6.25% and 6.75% at December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The reduction in the discount rate is due to the decline in Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index in 2004 and 2003. 48 The following tables illustrate the effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above: Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2004 Impact on Pension Liability at December 31, 2004 Impact on 2005 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $626 $535 $40 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 35 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2004 Impact on Postretirement Benefit Liability at December 31, 2004 Impact on 2005 Postretirement Benefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 174 $ $ 17 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 5 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons postretirement benefit plans. To estimate the 2004 cost, Exelon assumed a health care cost trend rate of 10%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 4.5% in 2011, compared to the 2003 assumption of 8.5%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 4.5% in 2008. To estimate the 2005 cost, Exelon will assume a health care cost trend rate of 9%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 5% in 2010. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates in 2004 would have the following effects: Effect of a one percentage point increase in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ 34 on postretirement benefit obligation $ 327 Effect of a one percentage point decrease in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ (28 ) on postretirement benefit obligation $ (276 ) The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during Exelons annual review process and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension amounts and funding requirements could also change. In 2004, Exelon incurred approximately $294 million in costs associated with its pension and postretirement benefit plans, including curtailment and settlement costs of $24 million. Although 2005 pension and postretirement benefit costs will depend on market conditions, Exelon believes that its pension and postretirement benefit costs will decrease in 2005 due to an anticipated contribution of approximately $2 billion to the pension plans, partially offset by an increase in postretirement benefit costs due to a change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate. Depending on the timing of the pension contribution, the estimated net decrease in 2005 pension and postretirement benefit costs could range from approximately $30 million to approximately $120 million. If the contribution is made on July 1, 2005, the estimated net decrease in 2005 pension and postretirement benefit cost would be approximately $75 million. 49 Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71), which requires Exelon, ComEd and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements as a one time extraordinary item and through impacts on continuing operations. See Note 5 and Note 2 of Exelons and ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively, for further information regarding regulatory issues. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. As of December 31, 2004, Exelon and PECO had recorded $4.8 billion of net regulatory assets within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2004, Exelon and ComEd had recorded $2.2 billion of net regulatory liabilities within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 21 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction where they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. The electric businesses of both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Because the current rates include the recovery of existing regulatory assets and liabilities and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow Exelon, ComEd and PECO to earn a reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the Federal level and in the states where ComEd and PECO do business but is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could limit the ability to pay dividends under PUHCA and state law. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants enter into derivatives to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation utilizes derivatives with respect to energy transactions to manage the utilization of its available generating capability and provisions of wholesale energy to its affiliates. Generation also utilizes energy option contracts and energy financial swap arrangements to limit the 50 market price risk associated with forward energy commodity contracts. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for trading purposes. All of the Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133). Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Derivatives recorded at fair value on the balance sheet are presented as current or noncurrent mark to market derivative assets or liabilities. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings as hedged transaction occur. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon the assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery of the underlying item. This assessment is based primarily on internal models that forecast customer demand and electricity and gas supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. Significant changes in these assumptions could result in these contracts not qualifying for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. Energy Contracts. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133) hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants use external dealer prices or internal valuation models that utilize assumptions of available market pricing curves. 51 Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, depreciation estimates are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation charged to the financial statements. In 2001, Generation extended the estimated service lives of certain nuclear fuel generating facilities based upon Generations intent to apply for license renewals for these facilities. While Generation expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for these facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties have a significant effect on their financial statements. The accounting for taxation and environmental costs are further discussed below. Taxation The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and ongoing operations to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, use and employment related taxes, including taxes that are subject to ongoing appeals. Judgments include estimating reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that they have taken. The Registrants must also assess their ability to generate capital gains in future periods to realize tax benefits associated with capital losses previously generated or expected to be generated in future periods. Capital losses may be deducted only to the extent of capital gains realized during the year of the loss or during the three prior or five succeeding years. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. Generation has recorded valuation allowances against certain deferred assets associated with capital losses due to the consolidation of Sithe. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2004 reflect the probable expected outcome of these tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, and SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Environmental Costs As of December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $124 million, $61 million, $47 million and $16 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where 52 timing and costs of expenditures can be reliably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts represent $96 million, $55 million and $41 million, respectively, of the total accrued for Exelon, ComEd and PECO. Where timing and amounts cannot be reliably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $28 million, $6 million, $6 million and $16 million, respectively, of the total accrued liabilities for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology, regulations or the requirements of local governmental authorities. Severance Accounting (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with the Registrants and compensation level. The Registrants accrue severance benefits that are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in estimating severance charges is the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. The Registrants base their estimates on their current plans and ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate their businesses. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation recorded severance charges of $32 million, $10 million, $3 million and $2 million, respectively, in 2004 and severance charges of $135 million, $61 million, $16 million and $38 million, respectively, in 2003, related to personnel reductions. The Registrants may incur further severance costs if they identify additional positions to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Energy Deliverys and Exelon Energy Companys energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable of ComEd, PECO, and Generation included estimates of $275 million, $143 million, and $64 million, respectively, for unbilled revenue as of December 31, 2004 as a result of unread meters at ComEd, PECO and Exelon Energy Company. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding Exelon Energy Company, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Customer accounts receivable of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2004 include unbilled energy revenues of $385 million related to unbilled energy sales of Generation. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period would increase unbilled revenue. Accounting for Ownership Interests in Variable Interest Entities (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) At December 31, 2004, Exelon, through Generation, had a 50% interest in Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Exelon and Generation consolidated Sithe within their financial statements as of 53 March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. Sithes total assets and total liabilities as of December 31, 2004 were $1,356 million and $1,289 million, respectively. As required by FIN 46 R, upon the occurrence of a future triggering event, such as a change in ownership, the Registrant would reassess their investments to determine if they continue to qualify as the primary beneficiary. See Notes 3 and 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of Generations interest in Sithe, which was completed on January 31, 2005. Subsequent to the sale, Sithe will no longer be consolidated within the financial statements of Exelon or Generation. In addition to Sithe, the Registrants reviewed other entities with which they have business relationships to determine if those entities were variable interest entities that should be consolidated under FIN 46 R and concluded that those entities should not be consolidated within the financial statements. 54 Exelon Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $1,864 million in 2004 as compared to $905 million in 2003 and diluted earnings per average common share were $2.78 for 2004 as compared to $1.38 for 2003, primarily as a result of increased net income at Generation, lower losses at Enterprises and several significant charges in 2003 that did not recur in 2004, partially offset by decreased net income at Energy Delivery. Key drivers included the following: Increased net income at Generation Generation provided net income of $673 million in 2004 compared to a net loss of $151 million in 2003. The increase in Generations net income reflects improved wholesale prices in 2004, the inclusion of a full year of AmerGens results in 2004, and impairment charges in 2003 of $945 million and $255 million (before income taxes) related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating and Generations investment in Sithe, respectively. Generations 2004 income also includes an after tax gain of $52 million on the sale of Boston Generating during the second quarter of 2004. See further discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Generation. Decreased losses at Enterprises Enterprises reported a net loss of $22 million in 2004 compared to a net loss of $118 million in 2003. Enterprises comparative results reflect net pre tax gains of $41 million recorded in 2004 related to the dispositions of certain businesses and investments, as well as investment impairment charges of $54 million recorded in 2003. See further discussion under Investment Strategy below and in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Exelon Corporation Results of Operations Enterprises. Favorable tax effects from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities increased 2004 after tax earnings by $65 million as compared to 2003. Decreased net income at Energy Delivery Energy Delivery provided net income of $1,128 million in 2004 compared to $1,175 million in 2003. This decrease was primarily attributable to unfavorable weather conditions and charges recorded in connection with the early retirement of debt, partially offset by growth in Energy Deliverys retail customer base and reduced severance and other charges in 2004 as compared to 2003. See further discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Energy Delivery. Investment Strategy. In 2004, Exelon continued to follow a disciplined approach to investing to maximize earnings and cash flows from its assets and businesses, while selling those that do not meet its strategic goals. Highlights from 2004 include the following: Proposed Merger with PSEG On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into the Merger Agreement with PSEG, the holding company for an electric and gas utility company primarily located and serving customers in New Jersey, whereby PSEG will be merged with and into Exelon. Under the Merger Agreement, each share of PSEG common stock will be converted into 1.225 shares of Exelon common stock. As of December 31, 2004, PSEGs market capitalization was over $12 billion. Additionally, PSEG, on a consolidated basis, has approximately $14 billion of outstanding debt which is currently anticipated to become part of Exelons consolidated debt. The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Exelon and PSEG, and further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, (i) Exelon may be required to pay PSEG a termination fee of $400 million plus 55 PSEGs transaction expenses up to $40 million and (ii) PSEG may be required to pay Exelon a termination fee of $400 million plus Exelons transaction expenses up to $40 million. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies boards of directors but is contingent upon, among other things, the approval by shareholders of both companies, antitrust clearance and a number of regulatory approvals or reviews by federal and state energy authorities. On February 4, 2005, Exelon and PSEG filed for approval of the merger with the FERC, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) and the PUC. Exelon also filed a notice of the Merger with the ICC. Exelon anticipates that the Merger will close within 12 months to 15 months after the announcement of the Merger Agreement in December 2004, subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals which cannot be assured. OSC with PSEG Concurrent with the Merger Agreement, Generation entered into the OSC with PSEG Nuclear, LLC which commenced on January 17, 2005 relating to the operation of the Salem and Hope Creek nuclear generating stations. The OSC provides for Generation to provide a chief nuclear officer and other key personnel to oversee daily plant operations at the Hope Creek and Salem nuclear generating stations and to implement the Exelon operating model. PSEG Nuclear, LLC will continue as the license holder with exclusive legal authority to operate and maintain the plants, will retain responsibility for management oversight and will have full authority with respect to the marketing of its share of the output from the facilities. Boston Generating On May 25, 2004, Generation completed the sale, transfer and assignment of ownership of its indirect wholly owned subsidiary Boston Generating, which owns directly or indirectly the companies that own Mystic 4 7, Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River generating facilities, to a special purpose entity owned by the lenders under Boston Generatings $1.25 billion credit facility, resulting in an after tax gain of $52 million. On September 1, 2004, Generation completed the transfer of plant operations and power marketing arrangements to the lenders special purpose entity and its contractors under Boston Generatings credit facility. Sithe On September 29, 2004, Generation exercised its call option and entered into an agreement to acquire Reservoirs 50% interest in Sithe for $97 million and, on November 1, 2004, Generation entered into an agreement to sell its anticipated 100% interest in Sithe to Dynegy Inc. for $135 million in cash. Generation closed on the call exercise and the sale of the resulting 100% interest in Sithe on January 31, 2005. The sale did not include Sithe International, Inc. (Sithe International), which was sold to a subsidiary of Generation on October 13, 2004. Enterprises Exelon continued its divestiture strategy for Enterprises by selling or winding down substantially all components of Enterprises. At December 31, 2004, Enterprises remaining assets totaled approximately $274 million in comparison to $697 million at December 31, 2003. Enterprises expects to receive aggregate proceeds of $268 million and recorded a net pre tax gain of $41 million related to the dispositions of assets and investments in 2004. Financing Activities. During 2004, Exelon substantially strengthened its balance sheet and met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources, including capital markets, and through bank borrowings. Highlights from 2004 include the following: ComEd retired $1.2 billion of its outstanding debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity, pursuant to an accelerated liability management plan. In connection with these retirements, ComEd recorded pre tax charges totaling $130 million related to debt prepayment premiums and the write off of previously deferred debt financing fees. 56 In addition to the accelerated liability management plan, payments of approximately $728 million were made for the purpose of retiring PECO and ComEd transition trust long term debt and approximately $176 million of other net long term debt during 2004. Exelon replaced its $750 million 364 day unsecured revolving credit agreement with a $1 billion five year facility and reduced its $750 million three year facility to $500 million. Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program under which Exelon purchased common stock, now held as treasury shares, totaling $75 million during 2004. Exelons Board of Directors approved a policy of targeting a dividend payout ratio of 50% to 60% of ongoing earnings, and Exelon expects a dividend payout in that range for the full year of 2005. The actual dividend payout rate depends on Exelon achieving its objectives, including meeting cash flow targets and strengthening its balance sheet. On October 29, 2004, the Exelon Board of Directors approved an increased quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share, which was consistent with the dividend policy approved in 2004. The Board of Directors must approve the dividends each quarter after review of Exelons financial condition at the time, and there can be no guarantees that this targeted dividend payout ratio will be achieved. Regulatory Developments PJM Integration. On May 1, 2004, ComEd fully integrated its transmission facilities into PJM. PECOs and ComEds membership in PJM supports Exelons commitment to competitive wholesale electric markets and will provide Exelon the benefits of more transparent, liquid and competitive markets for the sale and purchase of electric energy and capacity. Upon joining PJM, ComEd began incurring administrative fees, which are expected to approximate $25 million annually. Exelon believes such costs will ultimately be offset by the benefits of full access to a wholesale competitive marketplace and increased revenue requirements, particularly after ComEds regulatory transition period ends in 2006; however, changes in market dynamics could affect the ultimate financial impact on Exelon. Outlook for 2005 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: Shorter Term: Weather conditions, wholesale market prices of electricity, fuel costs, interest rates, successful implementation of operational improvement initiatives and Exelons ability to generate electricity at low costs all affect Exelons operating revenues and related costs. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, operating revenues at Exelon generally will be favorably affected. Operating revenues will also generally be favorably affected by increases in wholesale market prices. Longer Term: The proposed merger with PSEG is expected to have a significant impact on Exelons results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See further discussion above at Proposed Merger with PSEG and in ITEM 1. Business Proposed Merger with PSEG. Following is a discussion of the other non merger related items that will have a longer term impact on Exelon. Restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, with continuing debate on RTO and standard market platform issues, and in many states on the post transition format. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (e.g., California); some states are adjusting current transition plans (e.g., Ohio); and the states of Illinois (by 2007) and Pennsylvania (by 2011) are considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. Exelon will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations, controlling costs and providing a fair return to its investors. 57 As Exelon looks toward the end of the restructuring transition periods and related rate freezes or caps in Illinois and Pennsylvania, Exelon will also continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. Exelon will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements Exelon has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. ComEd and PECO will also work to ensure that ComEds and PECOs rates are adequate to cover their costs of obtaining electric power and energy from their suppliers, which could include Generation, for the costs associated with procuring full requirements power given Energy Deliverys POLR obligations. ComEd intends to make various filings during 2005 to begin the process to establish rates for the post transition period. As in the past, by working together with all interested parties, Exelon believes it can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers; however, if Exelon is unsuccessful, its results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected after the transition periods. Generations financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the market changes in Illinois and Pennsylvania discussed above. While Generation has significantly hedged its market exposure in the short term, over the long term, Generations results will be affected by long term changes in the market prices of power and fuel caused by supply and demand forces and environmental regulations. Generating companies must also work with regulators to ensure that a viable capacity market exists and that new units will be constructed in a timely manner to meet the growing demand for power. On the operating side, to meet Exelons financial goals, Generations nuclear units must continue their superior performance while controlling costs despite inflationary pressures and increasing security costs. Exelons current plans are based on moderate kilowatthour sales growth (1% to 2%) from their current levels and stable wholesale power markets. Continued cost reduction initiatives are important to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. Despite these challenges, Exelons diverse mix of generation (nuclear, coal, purchased power, natural gas, hydroelectric, wind and other renewables), linked to a stable base of over five million customers, will provide a solid platform from which it will strive to meet these challenges. 58 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2004 2003 Favorable (unfavorable) variance Operating revenues $ 14,515 $ 15,812 $ (1,297 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 5,082 6,375 1,293 Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Operating and maintenance expense 3,976 4,508 532 Depreciation and amortization expense 1,305 1,126 (179 ) Operating income 3,433 2,277 1,156 Other income and deductions (921 ) (1,148 ) 227 Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,512 1,129 1,383 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,841 793 1,048 Income taxes 692 331 (361 ) Net income 1,864 905 959 Diluted earnings per share 2.78 1.38 1.40 Net Income. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million, net of income taxes, for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million, net of income taxes, related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). Net income for 2003 reflects income of $112 million, net of income taxes, for the adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoptions of FIN 46 R, EITF 03 16 and SFAS No. 143. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased primarily due to decreased revenues at Enterprises due to the sale of the majority of its businesses since the third quarter of 2003, the sale of Boston Generating and Generations adoption of EITF No. 03 11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and Not Held for Trading Purposes as Defined in EITF Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 03 11) in the first quarter of 2004, which changed the presentation of certain power transactions and decreased 2004 operating revenues by $980 million. The adoption of EITF 03 11 had no impact on net income. Operating revenues were favorably affected by Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen and the consolidation of Sithe. Operating revenues were also favorably affected by Energy Deliverys increased volume growth and transmission revenues collected from PJM, partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice initiatives. See further discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased primarily due to Generations adoption of EITF 03 11 during 2004 which resulted in a decrease in purchased power expense and fuel expense of $980 million. In addition, purchased power decreased due to Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in December 2003, which was only partially offset by an increase in fuel expense, and the sale of Boston Generating. Purchased power represented 24% of Generations total supply in 2004 compared to 37% in 2003. Purchased power 59 also decreased due to Energy Deliverys unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice initiatives, partially offset by volume growth and transmission costs paid to PJM. See further discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. Generation recorded a $945 million charge (before income taxes) during 2003 to impair the long lived assets of Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense decreased primarily as a result of decreased expenses at Enterprises due to the sale of the majority of its businesses since the third quarter of 2003 and decreased severance and severance related expenses, partially offset by increased expenses at Generation due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen and the consolidation of Sithe. Operating and maintenance expense increased $65 million due to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service at Energy Delivery and Generation, the acquisition of the remaining 50% in AmerGen in December 2003, the consolidation of Sithe and the recording and subsequent impairment of an asset retirement cost (ARC) at Generation in 2004. See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The increase also resulted from increased amortization expense due to investments made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004 in synthetic fuel producing facilities and increased competitive transition charge amortization at PECO. These increases were partially offset by reduced depreciation and amortization expense at Enterprises due to the sale of a majority of its businesses since the third quarter of 2003. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, the impairment of Boston Generatings long lived assets, operating and maintenance expense and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was primarily the result of increased taxes other than income in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due to the reduction of certain real estate tax accruals at PECO and Generation during 2003. Other Income and Deductions. Other income and deductions reflects interest expense of $905 million, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates of $153 million, debt retirement charges of $130 million (before income taxes) recorded at ComEd in 2004 associated with an accelerated liability management plan, impairment charges of $255 million (before income taxes) recorded during 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, an $85 million gain (before income taxes) on the 2004 sale of Boston Generating and a $35 million aggregate net gain on the sale of investments and assets of Thermal in 2004 (before income taxes and net of debt prepayment penalties). Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased by $186 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in December 2003, the deconsolidation of certain financing trusts during 2003 and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 27.5% for 2004 compared to 29.3% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. 60 Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2004 and 2003 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to Generation. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, was transferred to Generation. The 2003 information related to the Enterprises and Generation segments discussed below has been adjusted to reflect the transfer of Exelon Energy Company from the Enterprises segment to the Generation segment. Exelon Energy Companys 2003 results were as follows: Total revenues $ 834 Intersegment revenues 4 Operating revenue and purchased power from affiliates 209 Depreciation and amortization 2 Operating expenses 857 Interest expense 1 Loss before income taxes (29 ) Income taxes (11 ) Net loss (18 ) Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable (unfavorable) variance Energy Delivery $ 1,128 $ 1,170 $ (42 ) Generation 641 (259 ) 900 Enterprises (13 ) (117 ) 104 Corporate 85 (1 ) 86 Total $ 1,841 $ 793 $ 1,048 Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Energy Delivery $ 1,128 $ 1,175 $ (47 ) Generation 673 (151 ) 824 Enterprises (22 ) (118 ) 96 Corporate 85 (1 ) 86 Total $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 959 61 Results of Operations Energy Delivery 2004 2003 Favorable (Unfavorable) variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 10,290 $ 10,202 $ 88 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power and fuel expense 4,760 4,597 (163 ) Operating and maintenance 1,444 1,669 225 Depreciation and amortization 928 873 (55 ) Taxes other than income 527 440 (87 ) Total operating expense 7,659 7,579 (80 ) OPERATING INCOME 2,631 2,623 8 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (672 ) (747 ) 75 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (3 ) (39 ) 36 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (44 ) (44 ) Other, net (78 ) 51 (129 ) Total other income and deductions (797 ) (735 ) (62 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,834 1,888 (54 ) INCOME TAXES 706 718 12 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,128 1,170 (42 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 5 (5 ) NET INCOME $ 1,128 $ 1,175 $ (47 ) Net Income. Energy Deliverys net income in 2004 decreased primarily due to costs associated with ComEds accelerated retirement of long term debt, reflected in other income and deductions other, net, offset in part by lower interest expense. Operating income, while reflecting various changes in operating revenues and expenses, was relatively unchanged between periods. Operating Revenues. The changes in Energy Deliverys operating revenues for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Total increase (decrease) Volume $ 326 $ 3 $ 329 PJM transmission 149 149 Rate changes and mix (74 ) 111 37 Weather (176 ) (21 ) (197 ) Customer Choice (182 ) (182 ) T&O Charges (41 ) (41 ) Other (17 ) 10 (7 ) (Decrease) increase in operating revenues $ (15 ) $ 103 $ 88 Volume. Both ComEds and PECOs electric revenues increased as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. 62 PJM Transmission. Energy Deliverys transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM, partially offset by $15 million of lower transmission revenues and expenses at PECO. Rate Changes and Mix. Starting in ComEds June 2003 billing cycle, the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component decreased the collection of CTCs as compared to the respective prior year period. ComEds CTC revenues decreased by $135 million in 2004 as compared to 2003. This decrease was partially offset by increased wholesale market prices which increased energy revenue received under the ComEd PPO and by increased average rates paid by small and large commercial and industrial customers totaling $53 million. For 2004 and 2003, ComEd collected approximately $169 million and $304 million, respectively, of CTC revenue. As a result of increasing mitigation factors, changes in energy prices and the ability of certain customers to establish fixed, multi year CTC rates beginning in 2003, ComEd anticipates that this revenue source will range from $90 million to $110 million annually in 2005 and 2006. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Electric revenues increased $1 million at PECO as a result of a $20 million increase related to a scheduled phase out of merger related rate reductions, offset by a $19 million decrease reflecting a change in rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 as compared to 2003. Energy Deliverys gas revenues increased due to increases in rates through PUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003, December 1, 2003 and March 1, 2004. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet for 2004 was 33% higher than the rate in 2003. PECOs purchased gas cost rates were reduced effective December 1, 2004. Weather. Energy Deliverys electric and gas revenues were negatively affected by unfavorable weather conditions. Cooling degree days in the ComEd and PECO service territories were 12% lower and relatively unchanged, respectively, in 2004 as compared to 2003. Heating degree days were 6% and 5% lower in both the ComEd and PECO service territories, respectively, in 2004 as compared to 2003. Customer Choice. For 2004 and 2003, 28% and 25%, respectively, of energy delivered to Energy Deliverys retail customers was provided by an alternative electric supplier or under the ComEd PPO. The decrease in electric retail revenues attributable to customer choice included a decrease in revenues of $104 million from customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or under the ComEd PPO and a decrease in revenues of $78 million from customers in Pennsylvania being assigned to or selecting an alternative electric supplier. T&O Charges. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected through and out (T&O) charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. 63 Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Volume $ 163 $ (2 ) $ 161 PJM transmission 149 149 Prices 11 111 122 PJM administrative fees 15 15 Customer choice (165 ) (165 ) Weather (84 ) (15 ) (99 ) T&O Charges (22 ) (22 ) Other (13 ) 15 2 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 54 $ 109 $ 163 Volume. ComEds and PECOs purchased power and fuel expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. PJM Transmission. Energy Deliverys transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million in 2004 relative to 2003 due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM, partially offset by $15 million of lower transmission revenues and expenses at PECO. See Operating Revenues above. PJM Administrative Fees. ComEd fully integrated into PJM on May 1, 2004. Prices. Energy Deliverys purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to ComEds and PECOs PPAs with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer Choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to ComEds non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier and PECOs residential customers selecting or being assigned to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. Weather. Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to unfavorable weather conditions. T&O Charges. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected through and out (T&O) charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. 64 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance and severance related expenses $ (132 ) Charge recorded at ComEd in 2003 (a) (41 ) Payroll expense (b) (36 ) Incremental storm costs (21 ) Contractors (18 ) Automated meter reading system implementation costs at PECO in 2003 (16 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (13 ) FERC annual fees (c) (11 ) Environmental charges (10 ) Corporate allocations (d) 77 Other (4 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (225 ) (a) In 2003, ComEd reached an agreement with various Illinois retail market participants and other interested parties. (b) Energy Delivery had fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEd is no longer directly charged annual fees by the FERC. PJM pays the annual FERC fees. (d) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in Energy Delivery comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to increased competitive transition charge amortization of $31 million at PECO and increased depreciation of $22 million due to capital additions across Energy Delivery. In January 2005, PECOs Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system as part of a broader Energy Delivery systems strategy. The approval of this new system will result in the accelerated depreciation of PECOs current system, which is expected to result in additional annual depreciation expense in 2005 and 2006 of $15 million and $8 million, respectively, relative to 2004 levels. If additional system changes are approved, additional accelerated depreciation may be required. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income reflects increases at PECO and ComEd of $63 million and $24 million, respectively. The increase at PECO was primarily attributable to a $58 million reduction of real estate tax accruals during 2003 and $12 million related to the reversal of a use tax accrual in 2003 resulting from an audit settlement, partially offset by $4 million of lower payroll taxes in 2004. The increase at ComEd was primarily attributable to a $25 million credit in 2003 for use tax payments for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger and a refund of $5 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2003 partially offset by a refund of $8 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2004. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense was primarily due to scheduled principal payments, debt retirements and prepayments, and refinancings at lower rates. Distributions on Preferred Securities of Subsidiaries. Effective July 1, 2003, upon the adoption of FIN 46 and effective December 31, 2003, upon the adoption of FIN 46 R, ComEd and 65 PECO deconsolidated their financing trusts (see Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). ComEd and PECO no longer record distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities, but record interest expense to affiliates related to their obligations to the financing trusts. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. During 2004, ComEd and PECO recorded $19 million and $25 million, respectively, of equity in net losses of subsidiaries as a result of ComEd and PECO deconsolidating their financing trusts. Other, net. The change in other, net is primarily due to Exelons initiation in 2004 of an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $1.2 billion of long term debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity. ComEd recorded charges of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of these charges included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Energy Delivery Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Energy Deliverys electric sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) (a) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (b) Residential 36,812 37,564 (752 ) (2.0%) Small commercial & industrial 26,914 28,165 (1,251 ) (4.4%) Large commercial & industrial 20,969 20,660 309 1.5% Public authorities & electric railroads 5,135 6,022 (887 ) (14.7%) Total full service 89,830 92,411 (2,581 ) (2.8%) Delivery only (c) Residential 2,158 900 1,258 139.8% Small commercial & industrial 8,794 7,461 1,333 17.9% Large commercial & industrial 13,182 10,689 2,493 23.3% Public authorities & electric railroads 1,410 1,402 8 0.6% 25,544 20,452 5,092 24.9% PPO (ComEd only) Small commercial & industrial 3,594 3,318 276 8.3% Large commercial & industrial 4,223 4,348 (125 ) (2.9%) Public authorities & electric railroads 1,670 1,925 (255 ) (13.2%) 9,487 9,591 (104 ) (1.1%) Total delivery only and PPO 35,031 30,043 4,988 16.6% Total retail deliveries 124,861 122,454 2,407 2.0% (a) One gigawatthour is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (c) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which rates include a distribution charge and a CTC. 66 Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 3,612 $ 3,715 $ (103) (2.8%) Small commercial & industrial 2,360 2,421 (61) (2.5%) Large commercial & industrial 1,403 1,394 9 0.6% Public authorities & electric railroads 341 396 (55) (13.9%) Total full service 7,716 7,926 (210) (2.6%) Delivery only (b) Residential 164 65 99 152.3% Small commercial & industrial 220 214 6 2.8% Large commercial & industrial 190 196 (6) (3.1%) Public authorities & electric railroads 28 33 (5) (15.2%) 602 508 94 18.5% PPO (ComEd only) (c) Small commercial & industrial 246 225 21 9.3% Large commercial & industrial 240 240 Public authorities & electric railroads 92 103 (11) (10.7%) 578 568 10 1.8% Total delivery only and PPO 1,180 1,076 104 9.7% Total electric retail revenues 8,896 9,002 (106) (1.2%) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 646 555 91 16.4% Total electric revenue $ 9,542 $ 9,557 $ (15) (0.2%) (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. PECOs tariffed rates also include a CTC. See Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue under tariffed rates from customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which rates include a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (c) Revenues from customers choosing ComEds PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. Energy Deliverys gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers in million cubic feet (mmcf) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,949 61,858 (1,909) (3.1%) Transportation 27,148 26,404 744 2.8% Total 87,097 88,262 (1,165) (1.3%) Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 702 $ 609 $ 93 15.3% Transportation 18 18 Resales and other 28 18 10 55.6% Total $ 748 $ 645 $ 103 16.0% 67 Results of Operations Generation As previously described, effective January 1, 2004, Exelon contributed its interest in Exelon Energy Company to Generation. Exelon Energy Company was previously reported as a part of the Enterprises segment. For comparative discussion and analysis, Exelon Energy Companys results of operations have been included within Generations results of operations as if this transfer had occurred on January 1, 2003. 2004 2003 Favorable(Unfavorable) OPERATING REVENUES $ 7,938 $ 8,760 $ (822 ) OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 2,325 3,630 1,305 Fuel 1,845 2,115 270 Operating and maintenance 2,273 1,886 (387 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 294 201 (93 ) Taxes other than income 171 121 (50 ) Total operating expense 6,908 8,898 1,990 OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) 1,030 (138 ) 1,168 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (167 ) (89 ) (78 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) 49 (63 ) Other, net 143 (267 ) 410 Total other income and deductions (38 ) (307 ) 269 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES, MINORITY INTEREST, AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 992 (445 ) 1,437 INCOME TAXES 372 (190 ) (562 ) INCOME BEFORE MINORITY INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 620 (255 ) 875 MINORITY INTEREST 21 (4 ) 25 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 641 (259 ) 900 CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (net of income taxes) 32 108 (76 ) NET INCOME (LOSS) $ 673 $ (151 ) $ 824 Net Income (Loss). Generations net income in 2004 increased from 2003 due to a number of factors. The increase in Generations 2004 net income was driven primarily by charges incurred in 2003 for the impairment of the long lived assets of Boston Generating of $945 million (before income taxes) and the impairment and other transaction related charges of $280 million (before income taxes) related to Generations investment in Sithe. Also, 2004 results were favorably affected by the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen and an increase in revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, primarily due to the decrease in average realized costs resulting from the increased success in the hedging program of fuel costs in 2004. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles recorded in 2004 included a benefit of $32 million, net of income taxes, related to the adoption of FIN 46 R and in 2003 included income of 68 $108 million, net of income taxes related to the of adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these effects. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily as a result of the adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in revenues of $980 million in 2004 as compared with the prior year. Generations sales in 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,749 $ 3,831 $ (82 ) (2.1%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,227 4,107 (880 ) (21.4%) Total energy sales revenue 6,976 7,938 (962 ) (12.1%) Retail gas sales 456 588 (132 ) (22.4%) Trading portfolio 1 (1 ) (100.0%) Other revenue (a) 506 233 273 117.2% Total revenue $ 7,938 $ 8,760 $ (822 ) (9.4%) Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 110,465 112,688 (2,223 ) (2.0%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 92,134 112,816 (20,682 ) (18.3%) Total sales 202,599 225,504 (22,905 ) (10.2%) (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, including Sithe in 2004, and fossil fuel sales. Trading volumes of 24,001 GWhs and 32,584 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2004, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric Sales to Affiliates. Sales to Energy Delivery declined $82 million in 2004 as compared to the prior year. The lower sales to Energy Delivery were primarily driven by cooler than normal summer weather and lower average transfer prices in 2004 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase (decrease) Effects of EITF 03 11 adoption (a) $(966 ) Sale of Boston Generating (370 ) Addition of AmerGen operations 189 Other operations 267 Decrease in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (880 ) (a) Does not include $14 million of EITF 03 11 reclassifications related to fuel sales that are included in other revenues. The adoption of EITF 03 11 on January 1, 2004 resulted in the netting of certain revenues and the associated purchase power and fuel expense in 2004. The sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 69 resulted in less revenues from this entity in 2004 compared to the prior year. The acquisition of AmerGen resulted in increased market and retail electric sales of approximately $189 million in 2004. The remaining increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily due to higher volumes sold to the market at overall higher prices. The increase in market prices in the Midwest region was primarily driven by higher coal prices throughout the year, and in the Mid Atlantic region market prices were driven by higher oil and gas prices. Retail Gas Sales. Retail gas sales decreased $132 million as a result of the wind down of Exelon Energys northeast business. Other revenue. Other revenues in 2004 include $235 million of revenue related to the results of Sithe Energies, Inc. The remaining increase in other revenue includes sales from tolling agreement, fossil fuel and decommissioning revenue. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply of sales in 2004 and 2003, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 136,621 117,502 16.3 % Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 48,968 83,692 (41.5 %) Fossil and hydroelectric generation (c, d) 17,010 24,310 (30.0 %) Total supply 202,599 225,504 (10.2 %) (a) Excludes AmerGen for 2003. AmerGen generated 20,135 GWhs during the year ended December 31, 2004. (b) Sales in 2004 do not include 25,464 GWhs that were netted with purchased power GWhs as a result of the reclassification of certain hedging activities in accordance with EITF 03 11. Includes PPAs with AmerGen, which represented 12,667 GWhs in 2003. (c) Fossil and hydroelectric supply mix changed as a result of decreased fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. (d) Excludes Sithe and Generations investment in TEG and TEP. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase (decrease) Effects of the adoption of EITF 03 11 $ (980 ) Addition of AmerGen operations (344 ) Sale of Boston Generating (290 ) Midwest Generation (122 ) Price (13 ) Mark to market adjustments on hedging activity (14 ) Volume 267 Sithe Energies, Inc. 165 Other (244 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (1,575 ) Adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in purchased power and fuel expense of $980 million. 70 Addition of AmerGen Operations. As a result of Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in AmerGen in December 2003, purchased power decreased $379 million. In prior periods, Generation reported energy purchased from AmerGen as purchased power expense. The decrease in purchase power was offset by an increase of $35 million related to AmerGens nuclear fuel expense. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in fuel and purchased power expense for Boston Generating is due primarily to the sale of the business in May 2004. Midwest Generation. The volume of purchased power acquired from Midwest Generation declined in 2004 as a result of Generation exercising its option to reduce the capacity purchased from Midwest Generation, as announced in 2003. Price. The decrease reflects the forward hedging of fuel at lower costs than 2003 realized costs. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities at Generation were $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to losses of $16 million for 2003. Hedging activities in 2004 relating to Boston Generating operations accounted for a gain of $4 million and hedging activities relating to other Generation operations in 2004 accounted for losses of $6 million. Volume. Generation experienced increases in purchased power and fuel expense due to increased market and retail electric sales throughout its various sales regions. Sithe Energies, Inc. Under the provisions of FIN 46 R, the operating results of Sithe were included in Generations results of operations beginning April 1, 2004. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Sithe. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to $157 million of lower fuel expense due to the wind down of Exelon Energys northeast business and $97 million of lower transmission expense resulting from reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM. Generations average margins per megawatt hour (MWh) sold for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2004 2003 % Change Average revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 33.94 $ 34.00 (0.2%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 35.03 36.40 (3.8%) Total excluding the trading portfolio 34.43 35.20 (2.2%) Average supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (a) 20.59 25.48 (19.2%) Average margin excluding the trading portfolio 13.84 9.72 42.4% (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power, fuel costs and PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. In connection with the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003, Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes). See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Generations ownership interest in Boston Generating. 71 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Generation Increase (decrease) Addition of AmerGen operations $ 331 Sithe Energies, Inc. 71 Decommissioning related costs (a) 50 Refueling outage costs (b) 50 Pension, payroll and benefit costs, primarily associated with The Exelon Way (84 ) DOE Settlement (c) (52 ) Sale of Boston Generating (12 ) Other 33 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 387 (a) Includes $40 million due to AmerGen asset retirement obligation accretion. (b) Includes refueling outage cost of $43 million at AmerGen. (c) See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the spent nuclear fuel storage settlement agreement with the DOE. The increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen and Sithe Energies, Inc. in Generations consolidated results for 2004. Decommissioning related costs increased primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in 2004 compared to the prior year. Accretion expense includes accretion of the asset retirement obligation and adjustments to offset the earnings impacts of certain decommissioning related activities revenues earned from ComEd and PECO, income taxes, and depreciation of the ARC asset to zero. The increase in operating and maintenance expense was partially offset by a reductions in payroll related costs due to the implementation of the programs associated with The Exelon Way, the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 and the settlement with the DOE to reimburse Generation for costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power costs data for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Generation 2004 2003 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5% 93.4% Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.43 $ 12.53 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 47.48 $ 43.17 (a) Includes AmerGen and excludes Salem, which is operated PSEG Nuclear. (b) Includes PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. The higher nuclear capacity factor and lower nuclear production costs are primarily due to ten fewer unplanned outages which offset the impact of one additional planned refuel outage. The lower production cost in 2004 as compared to 2003 is primarily due to the lower fuel costs and the impact of the spent fuel storage cost settlement agreement with the DOE which offset the added cost for one additional planned refuel outage and costs associated with the Dresden generator repairs during outages in the fourth quarter of 2004. In 2004 as compared to 2003, the Quad Cities units intermittently operated at pre Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. Generation plans additional expenditures to ensure safe and reliable operations at the EPU output levels by mid 2005. 72 Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the immediate expensing of an ARC, totaling $49 million, recorded in 2004 for which no useful life remains. The ARC was originally recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 143, which requires the establishment of an asset to offset the impact of an increased asset retirement obligation (ARO). See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the 2004 update to the ARO and ARC. The remaining increase is due to capital additions and the consolidation of Sithe and AmerGen. These increase were partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense related to Boston Generating facilities, which were sold in May 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 37.5% for 2004 compared to 42.7% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to income taxes associated with nuclear decommissioning trust activity, income tax deductions related to non taxable employee benefits and the dilution of the permanent income tax benefits due to the increase in pre tax income in 2004. Results of Operations Enterprises As previously described, effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises contributed its interest in Exelon Energy Company to Generation. Exelon Energy Company was previously reported as a part of the Enterprises segment. For comparative discussion and analysis, the results of Exelon Energy Company have been excluded from Enterprises 2003 results of operations discussed below. 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 155 $ 923 $ (768 ) Operating and maintenance expense 211 1,027 816 Operating loss (62 ) (139 ) 77 Loss before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (7 ) (187 ) 180 Loss before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (13 ) (117 ) 104 Net loss (22 ) (118 ) 96 Divestiture of Businesses and Investments. In 2004, Exelon continued to execute its divestiture strategy for Enterprises by selling or winding down substantially all components of Enterprises. Enterprises expects to receive aggregate proceeds of $268 million and recorded a net pre tax gain on the disposition of assets and investments of $41 million in 2004. Enterprises results for 2004 compared to 2003 were significantly affected by the following transactions: InfraSource, Inc. On September 24, 2003, Enterprises sold the electric construction and services, underground and telecom businesses of InfraSource. Cash proceeds to Enterprises from the sale were approximately $175 million, net of transaction costs and cash transferred to the buyer upon sale, plus a $30 million subordinated note receivable maturing in 2011. At the time of closing, the present value of the note receivable was approximately $12 million. The note was collected in full during the second quarter of 2004, resulting in income of $18 million. Exelon Services, Inc. During 2004, Enterprises disposed of or wound down all of the operating businesses of Exelon Services, Inc. (Exelon Services), including Exelon Solutions, all mechanical services businesses and the Integrated Technology Group. Total expected proceeds and the net gain 73 on sale recorded during 2004 related to the disposition of these businesses were $61 million and $9 million, respectively. The gain was recorded in other income and deductions on Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2004, Exelon Services had assets and liabilities of $74 million and $22 million, respectively, which primarily consist of tax assets, affiliate receivables and payables, and sales proceeds to be collected. Exelon Thermal Holdings Inc. On June 30, 2004, Enterprises sold its Chicago business of Thermal for proceeds of $134 million, subject to working capital adjustments. Enterprises repaid $37 million of debt outstanding of the Chicago thermal operations prior to closing, which resulted in prepayment penalties of $9 million, recorded as interest expense. A pre tax gain of $45 million was recorded in other income and deductions on Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income. On September 29, 2004, Enterprises sold ETT Nevada, Inc., the holding company for its investment in Northwind Aladdin, LLC, for a net cash outflow of $1 million, subject to working capital adjustments. A pre tax loss of $3 million was recorded in other income and deductions within Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income inclusive of the acquisition and sale of Northwind Aladdins third party debt associated with the transaction. On October 28, 2004, Northwind Windsor, of which Enterprises owns a 50% interest, sold substantially all of its assets, providing Enterprises with cash proceeds of $8 million. A pre tax gain of $2 million was recorded in other income and deductions on Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income. PECO Telcove. On June 30, 2004, Enterprises sold its investment in PECO TelCove, a communications joint venture, along with certain telecommunications assets, for proceeds of $49 million. A pre tax gain of $9 million was recorded in other income and deductions on Exelons Consolidated Statements of Income. At December 1, 2004, the remaining assets of Enterprises totaled approximately $274 million in comparison to $697 million at December 31, 2003. Net Loss. The decrease in Enterprises net loss before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles in 2004 was primarily due to a decrease in operating and maintenance expense, partially offset by a decrease in operating revenues. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $23 million before income taxes from 2003 to 2004 primarily as a result of the sale of the majority of property, plant and equipment since September 2003. In 2004, Enterprises recorded impairment charges of investments of $15 million before income taxes due to other than temporary declines in value, partially offset by 2003 charges for impairment of investments of $46 million before income taxes and a net impairment of other assets of $8 million before income taxes. The adoption of EITF 03 16 increased the 2004 net loss by $9 million. The adoption of SFAS No. 143 increased the 2003 net loss by $1 million, net of income taxes. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of EITF 03 16 and SFAS No. 142. Operating Revenues. The changes in Enterprises operating revenues for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Variance F & M Holdings, LLC / InfraSource businesses (a) $ (493 ) Exelon Services (a) (259 ) Exelon Thermal (a) (17 ) Other 1 Decrease in operating revenues $ (768 ) (a) Operating revenues decreased as a result of the sale of certain businesses and wind down efforts. 74 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in Enterprises operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Variance F & M Holdings, LLC / InfraSource businesses (a) $ (503 ) Exelon Services (a) (276 ) Exelon Thermal (a) (10 ) Other (27 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (816 ) (a) Operating and maintenance expense decreased as a result of the sale of certain businesses and wind down efforts. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was (85.7%) for 2004 compared to 37.4% for 2003. This change in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the reversal of a large income tax receivable at F&M Holdings, LLC in the fourth quarter of 2004, the state tax impact on the gains on the sales of Exelon Thermals Chicago businesses and certain investments, and various other income tax adjustments primarily associated with the sale of Enterprise businesses. 75 Results of Operations Exelon Corporation Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2002 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,812 $ 14,955 $ 857 Purchased power and fuel expense 6,375 5,262 (1,113 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 (945 ) Operating and maintenance expense 4,508 4,345 (163 ) Operating income 2,277 3,299 (1,022 ) Other income and deductions (1,148 ) (627 ) (521 ) Income before income taxes, minority interest and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,129 2,672 (1,543 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 793 1,674 (881 ) Income taxes 331 998 667 Net income 905 1,440 (535 ) Diluted earnings per share 1.38 2.22 (0.84 ) Net Income. Net income for 2003 reflects income of $112 million, net of income taxes, for the adoption of SFAS No. 143, while net income for 2002 reflects a $230 million charge, net of income taxes, as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoptions of SFAS No. 143 and SFAS No. 142. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased in 2003 primarily due to increased market sales at Generation due to generating assets acquired in 2002 and higher wholesale market prices in 2003. Total market sales at Generation, excluding the trading portfolio, increased from 88,985 GWhs in 2002 to 112,816 GWhs in 2003, and the average revenue per MWh on Generations market sales, excluding the trading portfolio, increased from $32.36 in 2002 to $35.20 in 2003. This increase in operating revenues was partially offset by a decrease in Energy Deliverys revenues of $255 million primarily due to unfavorable weather impacts and an increase in customers selecting an alternative electric supplier or ComEds PPO. Enterprises also experienced a $413 million reduction in operating revenues from 2002 to 2003, primarily due to the sale of InfraSource during the third quarter of 2003. See further discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased in 2003 primarily due to generating assets acquired in 2002 and higher market prices for purchased power in 2003. The average cost per MWh supplied by Generation, excluding the trading portfolio, increased from $22.51 in 2002 to $25.48 in 2003 due to increased fossil generation and increased purchased power at higher market prices. Fossil and hydroelectric generation represented 11% of Generations total supply in 2003 compared to 6% in 2002. See further discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. Generation recorded a $945 million charge (before income taxes) during 2003 to impair the long lived assets of Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased in 2003 primarily due to a change in the accounting methodology for nuclear decommissioning, severance and severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way, and increased costs at Generation 76 associated with generating assets acquired in 2002. Partially offsetting these increases was an overall reduction in operating and maintenance expenses at Enterprises, primarily due to the sale of InfraSource during the third quarter of 2003. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Operating Income. The decrease in operating income, exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, Boston Generating long lived asset impairment charge and operating and maintenance expense discussed above, was primarily due to a decrease of $214 million in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 143 and lower depreciation and amortization expense in the Energy Delivery segment. In addition, taxes other than income also decreased by $128 million primarily due to a reduction in reserves for real estate taxes within the Energy Delivery and Generation segments. Other Income and Deductions. Other income and deductions changed primarily due to impairment and other transaction related charges of $280 million recorded in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe. Interest expense decreased 9% from $966 million in 2002 to $881 million in 2003 primarily due to less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates at Energy Delivery partially offset by increased interest expense at Generation due to debt related to 2002 acquisitions and reduced capitalized interest in 2003. In 2002, Enterprises recorded a gain on the sale of its investment in AT&T Wireless of $198 million (before income taxes). Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 29.3% for 2003 compared to 37.4% for 2002. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to a decrease in state income taxes, net of Federal income tax benefit, and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2003 and 2002 operating results and other statistical information set forth below reflect intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to Generation. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, became part of Generation. The information for 2003 and 2002 related to the Generation and Enterprises segments discussed below has been adjusted to reflect the transfer of Exelon Energy Company from the Enterprises segment to the Generation segment. Exelon Energy Companys 2003 and 2002 results were as follows: 2003 2002 Total revenues $ 834 $ 697 Intersegment revenues 4 8 Operating revenue and purchased power from affiliates 209 235 Depreciation and amortization 2 16 Operating expenses 857 700 Interest expense 1 4 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (11 ) Loss before income taxes (29 ) (6 ) Income taxes (11 ) 16 Net loss (18 ) (33 ) 77 Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Energy Delivery $ 1,170 $ 1,268 $ (98 ) Generation (259 ) 365 (624 ) Enterprises (117 ) 87 (204 ) Corporate (1 ) (50 ) 49 Total $ 793 $ 1,670 $ (877 ) Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Energy Delivery $ 1,175 $ 1,268 $ (93 ) Generation (151 ) 367 (518 ) Enterprises (118 ) (145 ) 27 Corporate (1 ) (50 ) 49 Total $ 905 $ 1,440 $ (535 ) Results of Operations Energy Delivery 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 10,202 $ 10,457 $ (255 ) OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power and fuel expense 4,597 4,602 5 Operating and maintenance 1,669 1,486 (183 ) Depreciation and amortization 873 978 105 Taxes other than income 440 531 91 Total operating expense 7,579 7,597 18 OPERATING INCOME 2,623 2,860 (237 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (747 ) (854 ) 107 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (39 ) (45 ) 6 Equity in income of unconsolidated affiliates 1 (1 ) Other, net 51 71 (20 ) Total other income and deductions (735 ) (827 ) 92 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,888 2,033 (145 ) INCOME TAXES 718 765 47 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,170 1,268 (98 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 5 5 NET INCOME $ 1,175 $ 1,268 $ (93 ) 78 Net Income. Energy Deliverys net income in 2003 decreased primarily due to increased operating and maintenance expense resulting from severance and curtailment charges associated with The Exelon Way, a charge at ComEd associated with a regulatory settlement, lower revenues, net of purchased power primarily attributable to weather and higher purchased power prices, partially offset by reductions in depreciation and amortization expense, taxes other than income, and interest expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in Energy Deliverys operating revenues for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Energy Delivery Electric Gas Total increase(decrease) Customer choice $ (167 ) $ $ (167 ) Weather (229 ) 71 (158 ) Resales and other (22 ) (22 ) Rate changes and mix (58 ) 51 (7 ) Volume 118 (3 ) 115 Other effects (15 ) (1 ) (16 ) (Decrease) increase in operating revenues $ (351 ) $ 96 $ (255 ) Customer Choice. For 2003 and 2002, 25% and 21%, respectively, of energy delivered to Energy Deliverys retail customers was provided by an alternative electric supplier or under the ComEd PPO. The decrease in electric retail revenues attributable to customer choice included a decrease in revenues of $155 million from customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier and a decrease in revenues of $12 million from customers in Pennsylvania selecting or being assigned to an alternative electric generation supplier. Weather. Energy Deliverys electric revenues were affected by cooler summer weather in 2003, partially offset by colder winter weather in the first quarter of 2003. Cooling degree days in the ComEd and PECO service territories were 36% lower and 21% lower, respectively, in 2003 as compared to 2002. Heating degree days in the ComEd and PECO service territories were 5% higher and 16% higher, respectively, in 2003 as compared to 2002. Energy Deliverys gas revenues were affected by colder winter weather in the first quarter of 2003. Resales and Other. Energy Deliverys gas revenues decreased as a result of a decrease in off system sales, exchanges and capacity releases. Rate Changes and Mix. Energy Deliverys electric revenues decreased $33 million at ComEd primarily due to decreased average energy rates under ComEds PPO as a result of lower wholesale market prices. Electric revenues decreased $25 million at PECO as a result of rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2003 as compared to 2002. Energy Deliverys gas revenues increased due to increases in rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003 and December 1, 2003. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet for 2003 was 11% higher than the rate in 2002. PECOs purchased gas cost rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC and are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in rates. 79 Volume. Energy Deliverys electric revenues increased as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily in the large and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Other. The decrease was attributable to a reduction in wholesale revenue. This reduction reflects a $12 million reimbursement from Generation in 2002. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Energy Delivery Electric Gas Total increase (decrease) Customer choice $ (143 ) $ $ (143 ) Weather (119 ) 49 (70 ) Resales and other (28 ) (28 ) Prices 74 39 113 Volume 73 6 79 Decommissioning 62 62 Other (23 ) 5 (18 ) (Decrease) increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ (76 ) $ 71 $ (5 ) Customer Choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to ComEds non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or ComEds PPO and PECOs non residential customers electing or being assigned to purchase energy from alternative energy suppliers. Weather. Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to the impacts of cooler summer weather in 2003, partially offset by colder winter weather in the first quarter of 2003. Resales and other. Energy Deliverys fuel expense decreased as a result of reduced resale transactions. Prices. Energy Deliverys purchased power increased for electric due to an increase in the weighted average on peak/off peak cost of electricity at ComEd, and fuel expense for gas increased due to PECOs higher gas prices. Volume. Energy Deliverys purchased power and fuel expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effect of weather, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, primarily large and small commercial and industrial customers at ComEd and PECO. Decommissioning. ComEd changed its presentation for accounting for decommissioning collections upon the adoption of SFAS No. 143 (see Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Decommissioning collections, which are remitted to Generation, were previously recorded as amortization expense and are recorded as purchased power expense in 2003. Other. Energy Deliverys purchased power decreased due to additional energy billed in 2002 under the purchase power agreement (PPA) with Generation discussed in other operating revenues above. 80 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Energy Delivery Increase(decrease) Severance, pension and postretirement benefit costs associated with The Exelon Way $ 167 Charge recorded at ComEd in 2003 associated with a regulatory settlement (a) 41 Increased storm costs 36 Increased employee fringe benefits primarily due to increased health care costs 23 Decreased payroll expense due to fewer employees (93 ) Decreased costs associated with the initial implementation of automated meter reading services at PECO in 2002 (13 ) Other 22 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 183 (a) For more information regarding the settlement, see Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The reduction in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to a change in the accounting for nuclear decommissioning at ComEd, lower amortization of ComEds recoverable transition costs of $58 million and a $48 million reduction due to changes in ComEds depreciation rates in 2002, partially offset by increased depreciation of $30 million due to capital additions across Energy Delivery and increased competitive transition charge amortization of $28 million at PECO. Taxes Other Than Income. The reduction in taxes other than income was primarily due to a reduction of real estate tax accruals recorded by PECO of $58 million during the third quarter of 2003 and a favorable settlement of coal use tax at ComEd of $25 million. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the reduction of real estate tax accruals recorded by PECO. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense was primarily due to refinancing existing debt at lower rates and the pay down of transitional trust notes. 81 Energy Delivery Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Energy Deliverys electric sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) (a) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Full service (b) Residential 37,564 37,839 (275 ) (0.7 %) Small commercial & industrial 28,165 29,971 (1,806 ) (6.0 %) Large commercial & industrial 20,660 22,652 (1,992 ) (8.8 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 6,022 7,332 (1,310 ) (17.9 %) Total full service 92,411 97,794 (5,383 ) (5.5 %) Delivery only (c) Residential 900 1,971 (1,071 ) (54.3 %) Small commercial & industrial 7,461 5,634 1,827 32.4 % Large commercial & industrial 10,689 7,652 3,037 39.7 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,402 913 489 53.6 % 20,452 16,170 4,282 26.5 % PPO (ComEd only) Small commercial & industrial 3,318 3,152 166 5.3 % Large commercial & industrial 4,348 5,131 (783 ) (15.3 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 1,925 1,346 579 43.0 % 9,591 9,629 (38 ) (0.4 %) Total delivery only and PPO deliveries 30,043 25,799 4,244 16.5 % Total retail deliveries 122,454 123,593 (1,139 ) (0.9 %) (a) One gigawatthour is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (c) Delivery only reflects service from customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which rates include a distribution charge and a CTC. 82 Electric Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 3,715 $ 3,719 $ (4 ) (0.1% ) Small commercial & industrial 2,421 2,601 (180 ) (6.9% ) Large commercial & industrial 1,394 1,496 (102 ) (6.8% ) Public authorities & electric railroads 396 456 (60 ) (13.2% ) Total full service 7,926 8,272 (346 ) (4.2% ) Delivery only (b) Residential 65 145 (80 ) (55.2% ) Small commercial & industrial 214 159 55 34.6% Large commercial & industrial 196 170 26 15.3% Public authorities & electric railroads 33 28 5 17.9% 508 502 6 1.2% PPO (ComEd only) (c) Small commercial & industrial 225 204 21 10.3% Large commercial & industrial 240 278 (38 ) (13.7% ) Public authorities & electric railroads 103 71 32 45.1% 568 553 15 2.7% Total delivery only and PPO 1,076 1,055 21 2.0% Total electric retail revenues 9,002 9,327 (325 ) (3.5% ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 555 581 (26 ) (4.5% ) Total electric revenue $ 9,557 $ 9,908 $ (351 ) (3.5% ) (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. PECOs tariffed rates also include a CTC. See Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue under tariffed rates from customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which rates include a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Revenues from customers choosing ComEds PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. Energy Deliverys gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers in million cubic feet (mmcf) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales 61,858 54,782 7,076 12.9 % Transportation 26,404 30,763 (4,359 ) (14.2 %) Total 88,262 85,545 2,717 3.2 % Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 609 $ 490 $ 119 24.3 % Transportation 18 19 (1 ) (5.3 %) Resales and other 18 40 (22 ) (55.0 %) Total $ 645 $ 549 $ 96 17.5 % 83 Results of Operations Generation As previously described, effective January 1, 2004, Exelon contributed its interest in Exelon Energy Company to Generation. Exelon Energy Company was previously reported as a part of the Enterprises segment. For comparative discussion and analysis, Exelon Energy Companys results of operations have been included within Generations results of operations as if this transfer had occurred on January 1, 2002. 2003 2002 Favorable (unfavorable) variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 8,760 $ 7,320 $ 1,440 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 3,630 3,298 (332 ) Fuel 2,115 1,372 (743 ) Operating and maintenance 1,886 1,686 (200 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 (945 ) Depreciation and amortization 201 292 91 Taxes other than income 121 166 45 Total operating expense 8,898 6,814 (2,084 ) OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) (138 ) 506 (644 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (89 ) (79 ) (10 ) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 49 87 (38 ) Other, net (267 ) 87 (354 ) Total other income and deductions (307 ) 95 (402 ) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES, MINORITY INTEREST, AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (445 ) 601 (1,046 ) INCOME TAXES (190 ) 233 423 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE MINORITY INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (255 ) 368 (623 ) MINORITY INTEREST (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (259 ) 365 (624 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (net of income taxes) 108 2 106 NET INCOME (LOSS) $ (151 ) $ 367 $ (518 ) Net Income (Loss). The decrease in Generations net income in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily due to an impairment charge of $945 million before income taxes recorded in 2003 related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating, impairment and other transaction related charges of $280 million before income taxes recorded in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, and increased operating and maintenance expenses, partially offset by an increase in operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation also experienced an increase in its effective tax rate. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles recorded in 2003 and 2002 included income of $108 million, net of income taxes, recorded in 2003 related to the of adoption of SFAS No. 143 and 84 income of $2 million, net of income taxes, recorded in 2002 related to the adoption of SFAS No. 142. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these effects. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased in 2003 as compared to 2002. Generations sales in 2003 and 2002 were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,831 $ 3,978 $ (147 ) (3.7 %) Wholesale and retail electric sales 4,107 2,736 1,371 50.1 % Total energy sales revenue 7,938 6,714 1,224 18.2 % Retail gas sales 588 451 137 30.4 % Trading portfolio 1 (29 ) 30 (103.4 %) Other revenue (a) 233 184 49 26.6 % Total revenue $ 8,760 $ 7,320 $ 1,440 19.7 % Sales (in GWhs) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 112,688 118,473 (5,785 ) (4.9 %) Wholesale and retail electric sales 112,816 88,985 23,831 26.8 % Total sales 225,504 207,458 18,046 8.7 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements and fossil fuel sales. Trading volumes of 32,584 GWhs and 69,933 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2003, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric Sales to Affiliates. Sales to affiliates decreased primarily due to lower volume sales to ComEd, offset by slightly higher realized prices. Sales to PECO were lower, primarily due to lower realized prices, partially offset by slightly higher volumes. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. Sales volume in the wholesale spot and bilateral markets increased primarily due to the acquisition of Exelon New England in November 2002 and the commencement of commercial operations in 2003 of the Boston Generating facilities, Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River. In addition, average market prices were $5/MWh higher than 2002. Retail Gas Sales. Retail gas sales at Exelon Energy increased $97 million due to higher gas prices in 2003. In addition, customer growth in the gas and electric markets increased revenues by $69 million and $40 million, respectively. These increases were partially offset by the discontinuance of retail sales in the PJM region of $40 million and the wind down of the Northeast operations of $29 million. Trading Revenues. Trading activity increased revenue by $1 million in 2003 compared to a reduction in revenue of $29 million in 2002 due to an increase in gas prices in April 2002, which negatively affected Generations trading positions. Other. Revenues also increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, as a result of a $76 million increase in sales of excess fossil fuel. The increased excess fossil fuel is a result of generating plants in the Texas and New England regions operating at less than projected levels. Also, revenue increased by $62 million due to higher decommissioning revenue received from ComEd in 2003 compared to 2002. 85 Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply of sales in 2003 and 2002, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2003 2002 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 117,502 115,854 1.4 % Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 83,692 78,628 6.4 % Fossil and hydroelectric generation 24,310 12,976 87.3 % Total supply 225,504 207,458 8.7 % (a) Excluding AmerGen. (b) Including purchase power agreements with AmerGen. Generations supply mix changed as a result of increased nuclear generation due to a lower number of refueling and unplanned outages during 2003 as compared to 2002, increased fossil generation due to the Exelon New England plants acquired in November 2002, including plants under construction which became operational in the second and third quarters of 2003 and account for an increase of 8,426 GWhs. Additionally, the change included additional purchased power of 3,320 GWhs from Exelon New England, a new PPA with AmerGen which increased purchased power by 3,049 GWhs in the second quarter of 2003 and 11,989 GWhs of other miscellaneous power purchases, which more than offset a 14,208 GWhs reduction in purchased power from Midwest Generation. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Generation Increase Exelon New England $ 429 Prices 350 Volume 46 Hedging activity 22 Other 228 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 1,075 Exelon New England. Generation acquired Exelon New England in November 2002 and Mystic Units 8 and 9 began commercial operations during the second quarter of 2003, while Fore River began commercial operations during the third quarter of 2003. Prices. The increase reflects higher market prices in 2003. Volume. Purchased power increased in 2003 due to an increase in purchased power from AmerGen under a June 2003 PPA to purchase 100% of the output of Oyster Creek. Prior to the June 2003 PPA, Generation did not purchase power from Oyster Creek. Fuel expense increased due to increases in fossil fuel generation required to meet the increased market demand for energy and the acquisition of generating plants in Texas in April 2002. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities were $16 million in 2003 compared to a gain of $6 million in 2002. Other. Other increases in purchased power and fuel were primarily due to $171 million of higher purchased power and fuel expense at Exelon Energy, additional nuclear fuel amortization of $16 million in 2003 resulting from under performing fuel, which was completely replaced in May 2003 at the Quad Cities Unit 1, and $10 million due to the write down of coal inventory in 2003 as a result of a fuel burn analysis. 86 Generations average margins per MWh sold for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2003 2002 % Change Average revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 34.00 $ 33.58 1.3 % Wholesale electric sales 36.40 30.75 18.4 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 35.20 32.36 8.8 % Average supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (a) 25.48 22.51 13.2 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio 9.72 9.85 (1.3 %) (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power, fuel costs and PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Generation Increase(decrease) 2003 asset impairment charge related to long lived assets of Boston Generating $ 945 Adoption of SFAS No. 143 (a) 118 Increased costs due to generating asset acquisitions in 2002 78 Severance, pension and postretirement benefit costs associated with The Exelon Way 60 Increased employee fringe benefits primarily due to increased health care costs 54 Decreased refueling outage costs (b) (49 ) 2002 executive severance (19 ) Other (42 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 1,145 (a) Due to a reclassification of decommissioning related expenses upon the adoption of SFAS No. 143. (b) Includes cost savings of $19 million related to one of Generations co owned facilities. Refueling outage days, not including Generations co owned facilities, decreased from 202 in 2002 to 157 in 2003. The increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003. Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes) in the third quarter of 2003. The remaining increase is due to payroll related costs due to implementation of the programs associated with The Exelon Way, costs incurred due to generating asset acquisitions made in 2002, partially offset by lower refueling outage costs. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power costs data for the year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: Generation 2003 2002 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.4% 92.7% Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.53 $ 13.00 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 43.17 $ 41.94 (a) Including AmerGen and excluding Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. (b) Including PPAs with AmerGen. The higher nuclear capacity factor and decreased production costs are primarily due to 56 fewer planned refueling outage days in 2003 as compared to 2002, resulting in a $36 million decrease in refueling outage costs, including a $6 million decrease related to AmerGen. The years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 included 30 and 26 unplanned outages, respectively, resulting in a $2 million increase in non refueling outage costs in 2003 as compared to 2002. 87 Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to a $130 million reduction in decommissioning expense net of ARC depreciation, as these costs are included in operating and maintenance expense after the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and a $12 million decrease due to life extensions of assets acquired in 2002. The decrease was partially offset by $65 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service in 2002, of which $18 million of expense is related to plant acquisitions made after the third quarter of 2002. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 42.7% for 2003 compared to 38.8% for 2002. This increase was primarily attributable to the impairment charges recorded in 2003 related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating and Generations investment in Sithe that resulted in a pre tax loss. Other adjustments that affected income taxes include a decrease in tax exempt interest in 2003 and an increase in nuclear decommissioning investment income for 2003. Results of Operations Enterprises Enterprises 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 923 $ 1,336 $ (413 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 6 6 Operating and maintenance expense 1,027 1,297 270 Operating loss (139 ) (11 ) (128 ) Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (187 ) 140 (327 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (117 ) 87 (204 ) Net loss (118 ) (145 ) 27 Net Loss. The decrease in Enterprises net loss before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles in 2003 was primarily due to a decrease in operating revenues, partially offset by a decrease in operating and maintenance expense. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $15 million before income taxes from 2002 to 2003 primarily as a result of property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale in 2003. In 2003, Enterprises recorded charges for impairments of $46 million before income taxes due to other than temporary declines in value and an impairment charge of $8 million before income taxes for its equity method investment in a district cooling business joint venture, partially offset by 2002 charges for impairment of investments of $41 million before income taxes and a net impairment of other assets of $4 million before income taxes. In 2002, Enterprises recorded a pre tax gain of $198 million on the sale of its investment in AT&T Wireless. The adoption of SFAS No. 143 reduced 2003 net income by $1 million, net of income taxes. The adoption of SFAS No. 142 reduced 2002 net income by $243 million, net of income taxes. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoptions of SFAS No. 143 and SFAS No. 142. Operating Revenues. The changes in Enterprises operating revenues for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Enterprises Increase(decrease) InfraSource $ (359 ) Exelon Services (60 ) Other 6 Decrease in operating revenues $ (413 ) 88 InfraSource. Operating revenues decreased $256 million at InfraSource due to the sale of the majority of the InfraSource businesses in the third quarter of 2003. For the remaining InfraSource businesses, operating revenues decreased $103 million as a result of the closing of certain businesses and the reduction of new business as a result of wind down efforts. Exelon Services. Operating revenues decreased $79 million at Exelon Services due to poor economic conditions in the construction market. This decrease was partially offset by improved performance contracting activities of $19 million. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in Enterprises operating and maintenance expense for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Enterprises Increase(decrease) InfraSource $ (267 ) Exelon Services (6 ) Other 3 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (270 ) InfraSource. Operating and maintenance expense decreased $222 million due to the sale of the majority of InfraSource businesses in the third quarter of 2003. In addition, operating and maintenance expense decreased $80 million as a result of wind down efforts of the remaining InfraSource businesses. These decreases were partially offset by increased expense of approximately $30 million due to margin deterioration on various construction projects. During 2003, Enterprises recorded a net charge to operating and maintenance expense of $4 million (before income taxes and minority interest) associated with the sale of the majority of the InfraSource businesses. Exelon Services. Operating and maintenance expense decreased $56 million at Exelon Services due primarily to delays on mechanical construction projects resulting from poor economic conditions in the construction market. This decrease was partially offset by additional costs from increased performance contracting activities of $13 million, a goodwill impairment charge of $24 million and other asset impairments of $15 million. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 37.4% for 2003 compared to 37.9% for 2002. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the AT&T wireless sale. Liquidity and Capital Resources Exelons businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. These capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from Energy Deliverys and Generations operations. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. Exelons access to external financing at reasonable terms depends on Exelon and its subsidiaries credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that Exelon no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon has access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1.5 billion that it currently utilizes to support its commercial paper programs. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Exelon primarily uses its capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay common stock dividends, fund its pension obligations and 89 invest in new and existing ventures. Exelons construction expenditures utilize a significant amount of cash on projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, Energy Delivery operates in a rate regulated environment in which recovery of current cash expenditures takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, Exelon has historically operated with a working capital deficit. However, Exelon expects operating cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake, such as the proposed merger with PSEG, may require external debt financing or the issuance of Exelon common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Energy Deliverys cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. Energy Deliverys future cash flows will be affected by the impact of the economy, weather, customer choice and future regulatory proceedings on its revenues and its ability to achieve operating cost reductions. Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including Energy Delivery. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Cash flows from operations have been, and are expected to continue to provide, a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements for the foreseeable future. Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in the rate regulatory environments of ComEd and PECO, although any effects are not expected to hinder the ability to fund their business requirements. See Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business for further information regarding the regulatory transition periods. Additionally, Exelon, through its ComEd subsidiary, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. See Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these tax positions. The following table provides a summary of the major items impacting cash flows from operations: 2004 2003 Variance Net income $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 959 Non cash operating activities (a) 2,274 2,989 (715 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) 530 (366 ) 896 Pension and post retirement healthcare benefit payments (270 ) (144 ) (126 ) Net cash flow from operations $ 4,398 $ 3,384 $ 1,014 (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, impairment of investments and long lived assets and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations in 2004 and 2003 were $4,398 million and $3,384 million, respectively. Changes in Exelons cash flows provided by operations were generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. The $1,014 million increase in cash flows provided by operations from 2003 to 2004 was due primarily to an increase in operating income of $1,156 million during 2004 over 2003 and changes in working capital and other asset and liability accounts, including income taxes. The timing of the working capital and other noncurrent asset and liability account changes resulted in an increase to cash flows provided by operations of approximately $896 million in 2004 over 2003, approximately 90 $564 million of which is the result of the timing of Federal income tax activity. The operating cash flows resulting from Federal income tax activity were primarily the result of the following: Exelon reduced its Federal income tax obligation by approximately $315 million and $140 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, for tax deductible pension plan contributions of approximately $900 million to be contributed prior to September 15, 2005 and $400 million contributed prior to September 15, 2004, respectively. Exelon realized Federal income tax credits from its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, which reduced its 2004 and 2003 Federal income taxes payable by approximately $216 million and $23 million, respectively. Exelon recorded approximately $631 million and $1,057 million of special depreciation allowances in 2004 and 2003, respectively, that resulted in the reduction of Federal income taxes payable of approximately $220 million and $370 million, respectively. Approximately $150 million of the 2003 special depreciation allowance was recorded as a Federal income tax receivable at December 31, 2003 and filed and collected as a corporate application for quick refund in March 2004. This activity resulted in a $300 million year over year increase in cash flows from 2003 to 2004. In November 2003, Exelon recorded a Federal income tax receivable of approximately $120 million for capital losses generated in 2003 related to its investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. The transaction was presented as a use of cash in Exelons December 31, 2003 statement of cash flows. The combination of the income tax activities described above and other income tax activities reduced the amount of cash paid for income taxes from approximately $730 million in 2003 to approximately $200 million in 2004, a decrease of $530 million. Additionally, the following non recurring operating cash flows occurred during 2004: In December 2004, TXU and Generation terminated a tolling agreement and entered into a new agreement. Upon termination of the original agreement, Generation received a cash payment of $172 million. The resulting gain was deferred and will be recognized as income over the contractual term of the new agreement. See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the transaction with TXU. Net cash received for collateral for 2004 was $73 million, compared to $68 million paid in 2003. The year over year increase in cash flows of $141 million was primarily due to the reduction of cash collateral requirements for certain trading counterparties as a result of Generation negotiating the acceptance of letters of credit during 2004 to satisfy current and future collateral obligations. During 2004, Exelon paid $86 million for prepayment premiums on the retirement of ComEd debt. See Cash Flows from Financing Activities for further information regarding debt retirements pursuant to the accelerated liability management plan. Exelon management does not expect the changes in working capital associated with income taxes and other non recurring events, as described above, that contributed to the increase in cash flows provided by operations in 2004 to recur. Pension and other non pension postretirement payments. Discretionary tax deductible pension plan payments were $439 million in 2004 compared to $367 million in 2003. Exelon also contributed $11 million during 2004 to the pension plans needed to satisfy minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Additionally, $132 million and $135 million were contributed to the postretirement welfare benefit plans for 2004 and 2003, respectively. See Note 15 of Exelons 91 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding pension and postretirement benefits. Exelon expects to contribute approximately $2 billion to its pension plans in 2005, which will be funded primarily through the issuance of debt in 2005. These contributions exclude benefit payments expected to be made directly from corporate assets. Of the $2 billion expected to be contributed to the pension plans during 2005, $13 million is estimated to be needed to satisfy Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) minimum funding requirements. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2004 and 2003 were $1,736 million and $2,109 million, respectively. In addition to the recurring investing activities presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, significant investing activities by business segment during 2004 and 2003 are as follows: Exelon Exelon received cash proceeds of $76 million, net of $2 million held in escrow at December 31, 2004, from the sale of its investments in affordable housing in 2004. Exelon contributed $56 million to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities in 2004. Generation Exelon Generation received cash proceeds of $42 million from the January 2004 sale of three gas turbines that were classified as assets held for sale at December 31, 2003. On March 31, 2004, Exelon consolidated the assets and liabilities of Sithe under the provisions of FIN 46 R, which resulted in an increase in cash of $19 million. See Note 1 and Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the FIN 46 R consolidation of Sithe. Sithe collected a $20 million note receivable during 2004 related to the sale of certain businesses of Sithe during the fourth quarter of 2003 and the first quarter of 2004. On November 25, 2003, Generation, Reservoir, and Sithe completed a series of transactions resulting in Generation and Reservoir each indirectly owning a 50% interest in Sithe. Net cash proceeds from the series of transactions were $44 million. In addition, a note was received from EXRES SHC, Inc. for $92 million. See Note 3 and Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this transaction and Generations sale of Sithe. In December 2003, Generation purchased the 50% interest in AmerGen held by British Energy for $240 million, net of cash acquired of $36 million. The acquisition was funded with cash provided by operations. Enterprises Cash proceeds of $227 million, net of transaction costs and contingency payments on prior year dispositions, were received during 2004 from the sales of Exelon Thermal Holdings, Inc., substantially all of the operating businesses of Exelon Services, Inc., and Enterprises investments in PECO TelCove and other equity method and cost basis investments of Enterprises. 92 Early settlement on an acquisition note receivable from the 2003 disposition of InfraSource resulted in cash proceeds of $30 million during 2004. In September 2003, Enterprises sold the electric construction and services, underground and telecom businesses of InfraSource for cash of $175 million, net of transaction costs and cash transferred to the buyer upon sale. Investing activities in 2004 and 2003 exclude the non cash issuance of $22 million and $238 million of notes payable, respectively, for Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Exelon expects these investments to provide more than $200 million of net cash benefits from 2005 through 2008, with peak net cash of approximately $100 million in 2008. Capital expenditures by business segment for 2004 and projected amounts for 2005 are as follows: 2004 2005 Energy Delivery $ 946 $ 1,023 Generation 960 1,073 Corporate and other 15 56 Total capital expenditures $ 1,921 $ 2,152 Excluding acquisitions, capital requirements during 2005 are expected to be met through internally generated cash or external borrowings. Exelons proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Energy Delivery. Energy Deliverys projected capital expenditures for 2005 reflect continuing efforts to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems and capital additions to support new business and customer growth. Exelon anticipates that Energy Deliverys capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Generation. Exelon projects that Generations capital expenditures for 2005 will be higher than they were in 2004. The majority of these expenditures will be for additions and upgrades to existing facilities, nuclear fuel and increases in capacity at existing plants. Generation is planning on eleven nuclear refueling outages in 2005, compared to ten during 2004; however, the projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants are expected to decrease in 2005 from 2004 by $40 million. Exelon anticipates that Generations capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities for 2004 were $2,627 million compared to $1,240 million for the same period in 2003. The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to an increase in the net retirement of long term debt and preferred securities during 2004 of $2,221 million. Exelon retired $1.2 billion of long term debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity, during 2004 in accordance with an accelerated liability management plan and retired $728 million of long term debt due to financing affiliates. During 2003, Exelon issued debt (net of retirements during the period) and preferred stock of approximately $96 million. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding debt issuances and retirements during 2004. During 2004, Exelon issued $164 million of commercial paper, net of payments, and received cash proceeds of $33 million from the settlement of interest rate swaps. 93 During 2003, Exelon repaid $355 million of commercial paper and paid $43 million to settle interest rate swaps. Additionally, Exelon repurchased common shares totaling $82 million during 2004 and received proceeds from employee stock plans of $240 million and $181 million during 2004 and 2003, respectively. In 2004, Generation paid $27 million of a note payable to Sithe, compared to $446 million paid in 2003. At December 31, 2004, Generation had repaid $473 million of the note payable, resulting in a remaining balance of $63 million, which was paid upon the completion of a series of transactions that resulted in Generations exit from its investment in Sithe on January 31, 2005. See Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale of Sithe. The 2004 cash dividend payments on common stock increased $211 million over 2003, reflecting a 10% increase in the first quarter of 2004 and an 11% increase in the third quarter of 2004. See further discussion of Exelons dividend policy within the Dividends section of ITEM 5 of this Form 10 K. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, Exelon may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen its balance sheet. In the third quarter of 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan. Through December 31, 2004, ComEd had retired approximately $1.2 billion of debt under the plan, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper by Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. At December 31, 2004, Exelon, along with ComEd, PECO and Generation, participated with a group of banks in a $1 billion unsecured revolving facility maturing on July 16, 2009 and a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on October 31, 2006. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. At December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had the following sublimits and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower BankSublimit (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon $ 700 $ 685 $ 490 ComEd 100 74 PECO 100 100 Generation 600 444 (a) Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. (b) Available capacity represents the bank sublimit net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit facilities. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum LIBOR adder is 170 basis points. The average interest rates on commercial paper in 2004 for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were approximately 1.51%, 2.11%, 1.08% and 1.14%, respectively. 94 The credit agreements require Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and, in the case of Exelon and Generation, revenues from Sithe and interest on the debt of its project subsidiaries. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2004: Exelon ComEd PECO Generation Credit agreement threshold 2.65 to 1 2.25 to 1 2.25 to 1 3.25 to 1 At December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. At December 31, 2004, Exelons capital structure consisted of 56% of long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts, 41% common equity, 2% notes payable and less than 1% preferred securities of subsidiaries. Total debt included $5.3 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of ComEd and PECO that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property and CTCs of Energy Delivery or mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the corporate treasurer. ComEd and its subsidiary, Commonwealth Edison Company of Indiana, Inc. (ComEd of Indiana), PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon and UII, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, may participate as lenders. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the money pool by participant during 2004 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2004: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2004 Contributed (Borrowed) ComEd $ 487 $ 43 $ 308 ComEd of Indiana (a) 21 PECO 162 70 34 Generation 53 546 (283 ) BSC 197 (59 ) UII, LLC 160 (a) The activity at ComEd of Indiana was eliminated in the consolidation of ComEd. Security Ratings Exelons, ComEds, PECOs and Generations access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and its financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. On December 20, 2004, Standard and Poors Rating Services placed the ratings of Exelon and its subsidiaries on credit watch with negative implications in 95 response to the announced Merger between Exelon and PSEG. None of Exelons borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under Exelons credit facilities. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2004: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Investors Service, Inc. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa2 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior secured debt A3 A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 A BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 (a) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (b) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Exelon routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit its counterparties and Exelon to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. See the PUHCA Restrictions section below for discussion of investment grade ratings under PUHCA. Shelf Registration As of December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd and PECO had current shelf registration statements for the sale of $2.0 billion, $555 million and $550 million, respectively, of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of Exelon, ComEd or PECO to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. 96 PUHCA Restrictions On April 1, 2004, Exelon obtained an order from the SEC under the Public Utilities Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA) authorizing, through April 15, 2007, financing transactions, including the issuance of common stock, preferred securities, equity linked securities, long term debt and short term debt in an aggregate amount not to exceed $8.0 billion above the amount outstanding for Exelon Corporate and Generation at December 31, 2003. No securities have been issued under the above described limit. Exelon is also authorized to issue guarantees, letters of credit, or otherwise provide credit support with respect to the obligations of its subsidiaries and non affiliated third parties in the normal course of business of up to $6.0 billion outstanding at any one time. At December 31, 2004, Exelon had provided $2.0 billion of guarantees and letters of credit under the SEC order. See Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in this section for further discussion of guarantees. The SEC order requires Exelon to maintain a ratio of common equity to total capitalization (including securitization debt) of not less than 30%. At December 31, 2004, Exelons common equity ratio was 42%. Exelon expects that it will maintain a common equity ratio of at least 30%. Exelon is also limited by the April 1, 2004 order to an aggregate investment of $4.0 billion in exempt wholesale generators (EWGs) and foreign utility companies (FUCOs). At December 31, 2004, Exelon had invested $2.2 billion in EWGs, leaving $1.8 billion of investment authority under the order. In that order, the SEC reserved jurisdiction over an additional $3.0 billion in investments in EWGs. The loss of investment grade ratings for any outstanding security of ComEd, PECO or Generation would suspend the financing authority of the issuer to issue certain other securities and guarantees. The loss of investment grade ratings for any outstanding security of Exelon would suspend financing authority for ComEd, PECO, Generation and Exelon to issue certain other securities and guarantees. Exceptions include long term debt issuances by ComEd and PECO (authorization for such security issuances are granted by the ICC and the PUC, respectively), common stock and the issuance of securities for the purpose of funding money pool operations. For purposes of investment grade ratings, a security will be deemed to be rated investment grade if it is rated investment grade by at least one nationally recognized statistical rating organization. In cases where the financing authority of Exelon or a subsidiary is suspended in the circumstances as described above, Exelon would nevertheless be able to seek specific further authority from the SEC for it or its subsidiaries to continue to issue securities upon receipt of further SEC authorization. Under applicable law, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at ComEd, PECO or Generation may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. At December 31, 2004, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.4 billion, including ComEds retained earnings of $1,102 million (all of which had been appropriated for future dividend payments), PECOs retained earnings of $607 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $761 million. 97 Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2010 and beyond Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Long term debt $ 7,774 $ 424 $ 712 $ 1,023 $ 5,615 Long term debt to financing trusts 5,342 486 1,840 1,665 1,351 Interest payments on long term debt (a)(b) 4,031 429 790 644 2,168 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,938 329 515 285 809 Commercial paper 490 490 Capital leases 50 3 5 4 38 Operating leases 909 73 134 114 588 Power purchase obligations 9,497 2,024 1,973 1,288 4,212 Fuel purchase agreements 3,639 639 985 616 1,399 Other purchase obligations (c) 463 241 134 57 31 Chicago agreement (d) 48 6 12 12 18 Regulatory commitments 20 10 10 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 878 878 Obligation to minority shareholders 49 3 5 5 36 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 13 13 Decommissioning (e) 3,981 3,981 Total contractual obligations $ 39,122 $ 5,170 $ 7,115 $ 5,713 $ 21,124 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2004 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2004. In 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved contributions of approximately $2 billion in 2005 to Exelons defined benefit pension plans. The contributions will be funded in part by additional debt anticipated to be issued in 2005. Estimated future payments associated with the anticipated debt issuance have not been included in the table above. (b) Includes Sithe related interest payments of $71 million, $132 million, $115 million and $849 million for payments due in 2005, 2006 2007, 2008 2009 and 2010 and beyond, respectively. See Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the sale of Generations investment in Sithe. (c) Commitments for services and materials, minimum spend requirements related to the sale of InfraSource (see Note 2 of Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements) and amounts committed for information technology services. (d) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) Represents the present value of Generations obligation to decommission nuclear plants. For additional information about: regulatory commitments, see Note 5 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. commercial paper, see Note 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the spent nuclear fuel and decommissioning obligations, see Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the contribution required to Exelons pension plans to satisfy ERISA minimum funding requirements, see Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 98 operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements and other purchase obligations, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the obligation to minority shareholders, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Mystic Development LLC (Mystic) a former affiliate of Exelon New England has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $16 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheet of Exelon as of December 31, 2004 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Exelon paid down $27 million of the Exelon New England note during 2004 to fund Sithes acquisition of the 40% of Sithe/Independence Power Partners, L.P. that it did not own. Sithe is now the owner of 100% of the Independence generating plant. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permits ComEd, and the PUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, Generation was required to re measure its decommissioning liabilities at fair value and recorded an asset retirement obligation of $2.4 billion on January 1, 2003. Increases in the asset retirement obligation to decommission nuclear generating facilities resulting from the passage of time are recorded as operating and maintenance expense. Increases in the asset retirement obligation resulting from a remeasurement are recorded with a corresponding ARC, which is a component of property, plant and equipment. At December 31, 2004, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet was approximately $4.0 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin in 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $5.3 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2004. See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Exelons commercial commitments as of December 31, 2004. IRS Refund Claims ComEd and PECO have entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the IRS. ComEd and PECO previously made refundable prepayments to the tax consultant of $11 million and $5 million, respectively. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome of the claims and are based upon a percentage of the refunds to be recovered from the IRS, if any. The ultimate net cash outflow from ComEd and PECO related to all the agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claims with the 99 IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. A portion of ComEds tax benefits, including any associated interest for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger, would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill pursuant to a reallocation of the PECO / Unicom Merger purchase price. See below for discussion of the final approval of ComEds income tax refund claim. PECO cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of its refund claims. During 2004, the IRS granted preliminary approval for one of ComEds refund claims. As such, ComEd believes that it is probable that a fee will ultimately be paid to the tax consultant. Therefore, ComEd recorded an expense of $5 million (pre tax), which resulted in a decrease to the prepayment from $11 million to $6 million. The charge represents an estimate of the fee to the tax consultant which may be adjusted upward or downward depending on the IRS final calculation of the tax and interest benefit. As of December 31, 2004, ComEd had not reflected the tax benefit associated with the refund claim pending final approval of the IRS; however, as described above, the net income statement impact for ComEd is anticipated to be neutral or positive. In the first quarter of 2005, ComEd received final approval for the income tax refund described above; however the calculation of the claim, including interest has not been finalized. As a portion of the refund will be recorded against goodwill under the provisions of EITF Issue No. 93 7, Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination, the net result is not anticipated to have a material impact on Exelons results of operations. Variable Interest Entities Sithe. As of December 31, 2004, Generation was a 50% owner of Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Generation consolidated Sithe within its financial statements as of March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. See Note 3 and Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of Generations ownership in Sithe and the ultimate sale of Generations entire interest in Sithe, which was completed on January 31, 2005. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Trust IV in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding, LLC, ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, PECO Trust III and PETT were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Amounts of $5.3 billion owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004. See Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities in Part I, Item 1 for further discussion of the nature, purpose and history of Exelons involvement with these financing trusts. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2005. PECO entered into this agreement to diversify its funding sources at 100 favorable floating interest rates. At December 31, 2004, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $179 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, and a $46 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a long term note payable and reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as long term debt due within one year. At December 31, 2003, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $176 million interest in accounts receivable which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140 and a $49 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable which was accounted for as a long term note payable. PECO must continue to service these receivables and must maintain the level of the accounts receivable at $225 million. If PECO fails to maintain that level, the cash that would otherwise be received by PECO under this program must be held in escrow until the level is met. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposit. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the American Nuclear Insurers Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business Substantially all of Exelons businesses are in the electric generation, transmission and distribution industry in the United States. That industry is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. Exelons Energy Delivery business remains highly regulated while Exelons Generation and Enterprises businesses operate in competitive environments. All of Exelons businesses are capital intensive. The challenges affecting Exelons businesses are discussed below. There are several factors, such as weather, economic activity and regulatory actions that affect its businesses in different ways. Also, there are several factors that affect its business as a whole, such as environmental compliance and the ability to access capital on a cost effective basis. Further discussion of its liquidity and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. Energy Delivery The Energy Delivery business is comprised of two utility transmission and distribution companies, ComEd and PECO, which provide electricity and, in the case of PECO, natural gas to customers in Illinois and Pennsylvania, respectively. Energy Delivery focuses on providing safe and reliable services to customers. Energy Delivery continues to make improvements to its delivery systems to minimize the frequency and duration of service interruptions, while working more efficiently to lower costs. Exelon believes that Energy Delivery will continue to provide a significant and steady source of earnings and cash flows over the next several years. 101 Both Illinois and Pennsylvania have adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity. As a result of these restructuring initiatives, both ComEd and PECO are subject to rate freezes or caps through mandated restructuring transition periods. During these periods, the results of operations of ComEd and PECO will depend on their ability to deliver energy in a cost efficient manner and to offset infrastructure investments and inflation with cost savings. ComEd and PECO each have long term, full requirements supply contracts with Generation, helping to mitigate the risk of changing energy supply costs during their respective transition periods. Energy Delivery is also managing operating and maintenance costs, while maintaining a strong focus on both reliability and safety in operating its business. Exelon cannot currently predict the frameworks that will be used by the Illinois and Pennsylvania state regulators to establish rates after the transition periods. Exelon also cannot predict the outcome of any new laws that may impact its business. Nevertheless, Exelon expects that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electric power and energy to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR obligations, whereby each utility is required to provide electric power and energy service to customers in its service area. ComEd and PECO therefore must continue to ensure that adequate supplies of electricity and gas are available at reasonable costs. More detailed explanations for each of these and other challenges in managing the Energy Delivery business are as follows: Exelon must comply with numerous regulatory requirements in managing the Energy Delivery business, which affect their costs and responsiveness to changing events and opportunities. The Energy Delivery business is subject to regulation at the state and Federal levels. State commissions regulate the rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financings; and transactions between the utilities and affiliates. The FERC regulates the utilities transmission rates, certain other aspects of their businesses and, for PECO, gas pipelines. The regulations adopted by these state and Federal agencies affect the manner in which Energy Delivery does business, its ability to undertake specified actions, the costs of its operations, and the level of rates Energy Delivery may charge to recover such costs. Energy Delivery must manage its costs due to the rate and equity return limitations imposed on its revenues. Rate freezes or caps in effect at ComEd and PECO currently limit their ability to recover increased expenses and the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. As a result, Energy Deliverys future results of operations will depend on the ability of ComEd and PECO to deliver electricity and, in the case of PECO, natural gas in a cost efficient manner. Rate limitations. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated rate freeze on bundled retail rates that will remain in effect until January 1, 2007. Pursuant to a PECO / Unicom Merger related settlement agreement with the PUC, PECO is subject to agreed upon electric service rate reductions of $200 million, in aggregate, for the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005, including $40 million in each of 2004 and 2005, and caps (subject to limited exceptions for significant increases in Federal or state income taxes or other significant changes in law or regulation that do not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return) on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006, and on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. Equity return limitation. ComEd is subject to a legislatively mandated cap on its return on common equity through the end of 2006. The cap is based on a two year average of the U.S. Treasury long term rates (20 years and above) plus 8.5% and is compared to a two year average return on 102 ComEds common equity. The legislation requires customer refunds equal to one half of any earnings above the cap. ComEd is allowed to include regulatory asset amortization in the calculation of earnings. Under Illinois statute, any impairment of goodwill has no impact on the determination of the cap on ComEds allowed equity return during the transition period. ComEd has not triggered the earnings sharing provision in 2004 or previous years and does not expect to trigger that provision in 2005 or 2006. Energy Deliverys long term purchase power agreements provide a hedge to its customers demand. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, Energy Delivery has established full requirements, power supply agreements with Generation which reduce exposure to the volatility of customer demand and market prices through 2006 for ComEd and through 2010 for PECO. Market prices relative to Energy Deliverys regulated rates still influence whether retail customers purchase energy from Energy Delivery or from an alternative electric supplier. Effective management of capital projects is important to Energy Deliverys business. Energy Deliverys business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy transmission and distribution facilities and in other internal infrastructure projects. Energy Delivery expects to continue to make significant capital expenditures to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems and for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. It is anticipated that Energy Deliverys capital expenditures will exceed depreciation on its plant assets. Energy Deliverys base rate freeze and caps will generally preclude rate recovery on any of these incremental investments prior to January 1, 2007. Energy Deliverys business may be significantly affected by the end of the Illinois and Pennsylvania regulatory transition periods. Illinois. Illinois electric utilities are allowed to collect competitive transition charges (CTCs) from customers who choose an alternative electric supplier or choose ComEds power purchase option (PPO). CTCs were intended to assist electric utilities, such as ComEd, in recovering stranded costs that might not otherwise be recoverable in a fully competitive market. The CTC charge represents the difference between the market value of delivered energy (the sum of generation service at market based prices and the regulated price of energy delivery) and recoveries under historical bundled rates, reduced by a mitigation factor. The CTCs are updated annually. Over time, to facilitate the transition to a competitive market, the mitigation factor increases, thereby reducing the CTC. In 2004 and 2003, ComEd collected $169 million and $304 million, respectively, of CTC revenue. As a result of increasing mitigation factors, changes in energy prices and the ability of certain customers to establish fixed, multi year CTC rates beginning in 2003, it is anticipated that this revenue source will decline to approximately $90 million to $110 million in each of the years 2005 and 2006. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Through 2006, ComEd will continue to have an obligation to offer bundled service to all customers (except certain large customers with demand of three MWs or more) at frozen price levels, under which a majority of ComEds residential and small commercial customers are expected to continue to receive service. ComEds current bundled service is generally provided under an all inclusive rate that does not separately break out charges for energy generation service and energy delivery service, but charges a single set of prices. After the transition ends in 2006, ComEds bundled rates may be reset through a regulatory approval process, which may include traditional or innovative pricing, including performance based incentives to ComEd. 103 In order to address post transition uncertainty, ComEd is continually working with the ICC, consumer advocates and business community leadership to facilitate the development of a competitive electricity market while providing system reliability and safety. ComEd is promoting constructs that will move it towards transparent and liquid markets to allow for power procurement that will be deemed prudent, provide consumers assurance of equitable pricing and ensure cost recoverability. At the same time, ComEd is attempting to establish a regulatory framework for the post 2006 timeframe. Currently, it is difficult to predict the framework for, or the outcome of, a potential regulatory proceeding to establish rates after 2006. In 2004, the ICC initiated and conducted a workshop process to consider issues related to retail electric service in the post transition period (i.e., post 2006). Issues addressed included utility wholesale supply procurement methodology, rates, competition and utility service obligations. All interested parties were invited to participate. The end result was a report to the Illinois General Assembly which was generally supportive of continuing under the existing regulatory framework and of utilities procuring supply through a full requirements, vertical tranche, descending clock auction process with full recovery of the supply costs from retail customers. In 2005, utilities including ComEd, are expected to begin to seek regulatory approval of structures that implement the methodologies supported by the report or such other proposals as they may choose to make. ComEd intends to make various filings during 2005 to begin the process to establish rates for the post transition period. ComEd currently expects that these filings will include a proposal consistent with the auction process described above. All such methodologies and proposals will be subject to regulatory approval. ComEd cannot predict which particular proposal or proposals will be approved. Pennsylvania. In Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act) provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customers bills as a mechanism for utilities to recover their allowed stranded costs. CTCs are assessed to and collected from virtually all retail customers who access PECOs transmission and distribution systems. These CTCs are assessed regardless of whether the customer purchases electricity from PECO or an alternative electric supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that PECOs right to collect CTCs is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs were awarded, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. PECO has been authorized by the PUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. At December 31, 2004, approximately $3.9 billion had yet to be recovered. Recovery of transition charges for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. Amortization of PECOs stranded cost recovery, which is a regulatory asset, is included in depreciation and amortization expense. PECOs results will be adversely affected over the remaining transition period ending December 31, 2010 by the steadily increasing amortization of stranded costs. The following table (amounts in millions) indicates the estimated revenues and amortization expense associated with CTC collection and stranded cost recovery through 2010. Year EstimatedCTC Revenue Estimated StrandedCost Amortization 2005 $ 808 $ 404 2006 903 550 2007 910 619 2008 917 697 2009 924 783 2010 932 880 104 By the end of 2010, PECO will have fully recovered all of the stranded costs authorized by the PUC. As a result, PECO expects that both its revenues and expenses will decrease in 2011. PECOs transmission and distribution rates are capped through 2006, while PECOs generation rates are capped through 2010. The end of these transition periods involves uncertainties, including the nature of PECOs POLR obligations and the source and pricing of generation services to be provided by PECO. PECO will continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. PECO will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements PECO has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. PECO will also work to ensure that its rates are adequate to cover its costs of obtaining electric power and energy from its suppliers, which could include Generation, for the costs associated with procuring full requirements power given PECOs POLR obligations. As in the past, by working together with all interested parties, PECO believes it can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers; however, if PECO is unsuccessful, its results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected after the transition periods. Energy Deliverys ability to successfully manage the end of the transition period may affect its capital structure. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2004. This goodwill was recognized and recorded in connection with the PECO / Unicom Merger. Under GAAP, the goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. Under Illinois law, any impairment of goodwill has no impact on the determination of ComEds rate cap through the transition period. Goodwill was not impaired at Exelon or ComEd during 2004. Exelons goodwill impairment test considers the cash flows of the entire Energy Delivery business segment, including both ComEd and PECO, and not just of ComEd; accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge at ComEd may not affect Exelons results of operations. However, based on certain anticipated reductions to cash flows (primarily reductions in CTCs) subsequent to ComEds regulatory transition period, there is a reasonable possibility that goodwill will be impaired at ComEd, and possibly at Exelon, in 2005 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, market prices for power, post 2006 rate regulatory structures, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. Energy Delivery is and will continue to be involved in regulatory proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for its services. These regulatory proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings also involve various contested issues of law and fact and have a bearing upon the recovery of Energy Deliverys costs through regulated rates. During the course of the proceedings, Energy Delivery looks 105 for opportunities to resolve contested issues in a manner that grants some certainty to all parties to the proceedings as to rates and energy costs. Energy Deliverys business is affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. The electric utility industry in the United States is in transition. As a result of both legislative initiatives as well as competitive pressures, the industry has been moving from a fully regulated industry, consisting primarily of vertically integrated companies that combine generation, transmission and distribution, to a partially restructured industry, consisting of competitive wholesale generation markets and continued regulation of transmission and distribution. Due to a number of factors, these developments have been somewhat uneven across the states. Both Illinois and Pennsylvania have adopted restructuring legislation designed to foster competition in the retail sale of electricity, but a large number of other states have not changed their regulatory structures. Regional Transmission Organizations and Standard Market Platform. The FERC required jurisdictional utilities to provide open access to their transmission systems as early as the late 1980s. Subsequently, the FERC encouraged the voluntary development of RTOs and the elimination of trade barriers between regions. RTOs provide transmission service. Transmission owners remain responsible for maintaining and operating their transmission facilities, under the direction of RTOs, and recover their revenue requirements through the RTOs. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM, a FERC approved RTO operating in the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. RTOs direct the dispatch of generation units as a means of centrally managing congestion on transmission systems without curtailing service. RTOs also manage transparent and competitive short term energy markets. The FERCs efforts to promote RTOs throughout the states has generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. In addition, efforts to develop an RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. Notwithstanding these difficulties, MISO has been certified as a RTO by the FERC. MISO is attempting to develop central generation dispatch and transmission operations across the Midwestern United States, contiguous to PJMs footprint. The FERC has ordered the elimination of rate barriers and protocol differences between MISO and PJM. Energy Delivery supports the development of RTOs and implementation of standard market protocols for these regions, and others, but cannot predict their success or whether they will lead to the development of the envisioned large, successful wholesale markets. The development of large competitive wholesale electricity markets would facilitate an auction to meet ComEds and PECOs POLR load obligations with reliable wholesale electricity supply when their long term supply contracts with Generation expire. In the meantime, Energy Deliverys transmission facilities are being operated by PJM successfully with little impact on ComEds or PECOs transmission rates and revenues. Proposed Federal Energy Legislation. Attempts have been made to adopt comprehensive Federal energy legislation that, among other things, would repeal PUHCA, create incentives for the construction of transmission infrastructure, encourage but not mandate standardized competitive markets and expand the authority of the FERC to include overseeing the reliability of the bulk power system. Exelon cannot predict whether comprehensive energy legislation will be adopted and, if adopted, the final form of that legislation. Exelon would expect that comprehensive energy legislation would, if adopted, significantly affect the electric utility industry and its businesses. Such legislation did not pass Congress during 2004 but is expected to be reintroduced in Congress in early 2005. Energy Delivery must maintain the availability and reliability of its delivery systems to meet customer expectations. Increases in both customers and the demand for energy require expansion and reinforcement of Energy Deliverys delivery systems to increase capacity and maintain reliability. Failures of the 106 equipment or facilities used in its delivery systems could potentially interrupt energy delivery services and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Such failures of Energy Deliverys systems or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, could affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and Energy Deliverys maintenance and capital expenditures, and expose Energy Delivery to claims by customers and others. Regulated utilities that are required to provide service to all customers and others within their service territory have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. Energy Delivery has lost and may continue to lose energy customers and related revenue to other generation suppliers, although Energy Delivery continues to provide delivery services. Energy Deliverys retail electric customers may purchase their generation supply from alternative electric suppliers, although Energy Delivery remains obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to customers in its service territories regardless of their generation supplier. As of December 31, 2004, no alternative electric supplier had approval from the ICC, and no electric utilities had chosen to enter the ComEd residential market for the supply of electricity. ComEd and PECO are each generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in their service territories at fixed rates or, in some instances, market derived rates. In addition, customers who take service from an alternative electric supplier may later return to ComEd or PECO. The number of customers taking service from alternative electric suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that ComEd and PECO are authorized to charge by their state regulatory commissions. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different electric supplier, Energy Deliverys revenues are likely to decline, and revenues and gross margins could vary from period to period. Energy Deliverys post transition period and provider of last resort obligations add uncertainty to planning its electricity supply needs and its ability to manage the related costs of that supply. In 2004, the ICC initiated and conducted a workshop process to consider issues related to retail electric service in the post transition period (i.e., post 2006). Issues addressed included utility wholesale supply procurement methodology, rates, competition and utility service obligations. All interested parties were invited to participate. The end result was a report to the Illinois General Assembly which was generally supportive of continuing under the existing regulatory framework and of utilities procuring supply through a full requirements, vertical tranche, descending clock auction process with full recovery of the supply costs from retail customers. In 2005, utilities, including ComEd, are expected to begin to seek regulatory approval of structures that implement the methodologies supported by the report or such other proposals as they may choose to make. ComEd intends to make various filings during 2005 to begin the process to establish rates for the post transition period. These filings will include a proposal consistent with the auction process described above. All such methodologies and proposals will be subject to regulatory approval. ComEd cannot predict which particular proposals will be approved. Because ComEd and PECO customers can switch, that is, within limits they can choose an alternative electric supplier and then return to either ComEd or PECO and then go back to an alternative electric supplier, and so on, planning for Energy Delivery has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. Energy Delivery has no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. Energy Delivery manages its POLR obligation through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation supplies the 107 power requirements of ComEd and PECO. Also, Energy Delivery has sought through the regulatory process, as permitted by law, to retain the POLR obligation to customers who do not have competitive supply options and limit the POLR obligation for those customers that do have competitive supply options. In 2003, ComEd received ICC approval to phase out over several years its obligation to provide fixed price energy under bundled rates to approximately 370 of its largest energy customers, which have demands of at least three MWs and represent an aggregate of approximately 2,500 MWs of load. To date, ComEd has not requested to phase out its obligation to provide fixed price energy under bundled rates for other customers but continues to evaluate its options, particularly with respect to customers having energy demands of one to three MWs. A mandatory renewable portfolio standard (RPS) could affect the cost of electricity purchased and sold by Energy Delivery. Renewable and alternative fuel sources such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal are anticipated to have an increasingly important role in creating fuel diversity in the generation of electricity. Federal or state legislation mandating a RPS could result in significant changes in Energy Deliverys business, including fuel cost and capital expenditures. Energy Delivery continues to monitor discussions related to RPSs at the Federal and state levels. For additional information, see Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards in Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Weather affects electricity and gas usage and, consequently, Energy Deliverys results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below moderate levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. As a corollary, moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, Energy Delivery typically reports higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme summer conditions or storms may stress Energy Deliverys transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting its ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on Energy Deliverys operations. Economic conditions and activity in Energy Deliverys service territories directly affect the demand for electricity and gas. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the number of Energy Deliverys customers and their average use of energy. Periods of recessionary economic conditions may adversely affect Energy Deliverys results of operations. Retail electric and gas sales growth on an annual basis is expected to be between 1% and 2% in the service territories of ComEd and PECO. Generation Generation is focused on efficiently providing reliable power through a generation portfolio with fuel and dispatch diversity. Generations directive is to continue to increase fleet output and to improve fleet efficiency while sustaining operational safety. Generations Power Team manages the output of Generations assets and energy sales to optimize value and reduce the volatility of Generations earnings and cash flows. Exelon believes that Generation will provide a steady source of earnings through its low cost operations and will take advantage of higher wholesale prices when they can be 108 realized. More detailed explanations for each of these and other challenges in managing the Generation business are as follows: Generation must effectively manage its power portfolio to meet its contractual commitments and to handle changes in the wholesale power markets. The majority of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under long term purchase power agreements with ComEd and PECO. To the extent portions of the portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent that its portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of ComEd and PECO, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results are dependent upon its ability to cost effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, to manage its power portfolio and to effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation must effectively plan for the elimination of significant purchase power arrangements post 2006. Generation sells a significant portion of its output to ComEd and PECO under long term purchase power agreements. As a result of the continuing transition from a regulated environment, the agreement with ComEd, which expires at the end of 2006, is unlikely to be replaced with a similar arrangement. If the agreement is not replaced, Generation may need to sell more power at market based prices. Illinois has considered both regulated and competitive models for the post transition periods, including an auction based model and new contractual arrangements with third parties, which may have shorter durations and lower volume sales. A regulated model may not adequately compensate Generation for its investment in its generating facilities. Increased market sales and new contractual arrangements under a competitive model may adversely affect Generations credit risk due to an increase in the number of customers and the loss of a highly predictable revenue source. The scope and scale of Generations nuclear generating resources provide a cost advantage in meeting contractual commitments and enable Generation to sell power in the wholesale markets. Generations resources include interests in 11 nuclear generation stations, consisting of 19 units. Generations nuclear fleet generated 136,621 GWhs, or more than half of Generations total output, for the year ended December 31, 2004. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generations nuclear plants benefit from stable fuel costs, minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history. Generations financial performance may be affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. The ownership and operation of nuclear facilities involve risks as further described below. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to low fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear generating facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have a higher operating cost than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. 109 Refueling outages. Outages at nuclear stations to replenish fuel require the station to be turned off. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 25 days in duration. Generation has significantly decreased the length of refueling outages in recent years; however, when refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 25 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the AmerGen plants and the co owned Salem plant operated by PSEG, will increase from ten in 2004 to eleven in 2005; however, the projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants will decrease in 2005 from 2004 by approximately $40 million. Maintenance expenditures are expected to increase by approximately $15 million in 2005 compared to 2004 as a result of the increased number of planned nuclear outages. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization and or increased outage costs. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Spent nuclear fuel storage. Generation incurs costs on an annual basis for the storage of spent nuclear fuel. Under the terms of the settlement reached with the DOE in 2004, Generation will be reimbursed for costs of spent fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE under the settlement. Also, the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may affect the ability to fully decommission the nuclear units. License Renewals. Generations nuclear facilities are currently operating under 40 year Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) licenses. Generation has applied for and received 20 year renewals for the licenses that will be expiring in the next ten years, excluding licenses for the AmerGen facilities. Generation has received 20 year renewals of the operating licenses for the Peach Bottom 2 and 3, Dresden 2 and 3 and Quad Cities 1 and 2 Units. In December 2004, the NRC issued an order that will permit Oyster Creek to operate beyond its license expiration in April 2009 if the NRC has not completed reviewing the application for renewal. The application for Oyster Creeks license renewal is anticipated to be filed by August 2005 in order to comply with this agreement. Generation intends to evaluate opportunities, as permitted by the NRC, to apply for license renewals for some or all of the remaining licenses. If the renewals are granted, Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of the renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. Management believes the current status of Yucca Mountain will not impact Generations ability to renew the licenses for its nuclear plants. However, should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in 110 increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. On January 28, 2004, the NRC issued a letter requesting PSEG to conduct a review of its Salem facility, of which Generation owns 42.59%, to assess the workplace environment for raising and addressing safety issues. PSEG responded to the letter on February 28, 2004, and had independent assessments of the work environment at the facility performed. Assessment results were provided to the NRC in May 2004. The assessments concluded that Salem was safe for continued operation, but also identified issues that needed to be addressed. At an NRC public meeting on June 16, 2004, PSEG outlined its action plans to address these issues, which focus on safety conscious work environment, the corrective action program and work management. A letter documenting these plans and commitments was sent to the NRC on June 25, 2004. On July 30, 2004, the NRC provided a letter to PSEG indicating that it had completed its review. The letter indicated that the NRC has not identified any safety violations and that it appears that the PSEG action plan will address the key findings of both the NRC and PSEG assessments. On August 30, 2004, the NRC provided PSEG with its mid cycle performance reviews of Salem, which detailed the NRCs plan for enhanced oversight related to the work environment. The letter indicated the NRC plans to continue with this heightened oversight until PSEG has concluded that substantial, sustainable progress has been made, and the NRC has completed a review that confirms PSEGs conclusions. Under the NRC oversight program, among other things, PSEG provided the NRC with a report of its progress at a public meeting in December 2004, and began publishing quarterly metrics to demonstrate performance in the fourth quarter of 2004. The next public meeting is scheduled for spring 2005. The spent fuel pool at each Salem unit has an installed leakage collection system. This normal leakage path was found to be obstructed, causing concern about the extent of leakage contact with the fuel handling buildings concrete structure. PSEG is developing a solution to maintain the design function of the leakage collection system and is investigating the extent of any structural degradation caused by the leakage. The investigation should take approximately one year. If any significant degradation is identified, the repair costs to the owners of the facility could be material. The NRC issued Information Notice 2004 05 in March 2004 concerning this emerging industry issue and Generation cannot predict what further actions the NRC may take on this matter. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generations, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The limit as of December 31, 2004 is $10.76 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear 111 liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. Although the Price Anderson Act has expired, only facilities applying for NRC licenses subsequent to its expiration are affected. Existing commercial generating facilities, such as those owned and operated by Generation, remain subject to the provisions of the Price Anderson Act. Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2004 was $40 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, other than AmerGen facilities, the ICC permits ComEd and the PUC permits PECO to collect funds from their customers, which are deposited in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation. These funds, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. The ICC permitted ComEd to recover $73 million per year from retail customers for decommissioning for the years 2001 through 2004 and, depending upon the portion of the output of certain generating stations taken by ComEd, up to $73 million annually in 2005 and 2006. Because ComEd is not expected to take all of the output of these stations, actual collections are expected to be less than $73 million annually in 2005 and 2006. Subsequent to 2006, there will be no further recoveries of decommissioning costs from ComEds customers. PECO is currently recovering $33 million annually for nuclear decommissioning. Generation expects that these collections will continue through the operating license life of each of the former PECO units, with adjustments every five years to reflect changes in cost estimates and decommissioning trust fund performance. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin in 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $5.3 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2004. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) with scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2004, Generations 23 units met the NRCs Funding Levels. Generation will submit its next biennial report to the NRC in March 2005. In 2003, the General Accounting Office (GAO) published a study on the NRCs need for more effective analyses to ensure the adequate accumulation of funds to decommission nuclear power plants in the United States. As it has in the past, the GAO concluded that accumulated and future proposed funding was inadequate to achieve NRC Funding Levels at a number of U.S. nuclear plants, including a number of Generations plants. Generation has reviewed the GAOs report and believes that, in reaching its conclusions, the GAO did not consider all aspects of Generations decommissioning strategy, such as fund growth during the decommissioning period. The inclusion of estimated earnings growth on Generations nuclear trust funds during the decommissioning period virtually eliminates any funding shortfalls identified in the GAO report. Generation currently believes that the amounts in nuclear decommissioning trust funds and future collections from ratepayers, together with earnings thereon, will provide adequate funding to 112 decommission its nuclear facilities in accordance with regulatory requirements. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, when decommissioning activities are initiated, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to identify other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Generation relies on the availability of electric transmission facilities that it does not own or control to deliver its wholesale electric power to the purchasers of the power. Generation depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other companies, including ComEd and PECO, to deliver the power that it sells at wholesale. If transmission at these facilities is disrupted or transmission capacity is inadequate, Generation may not be able to sell and deliver its wholesale power. While Generation was not significantly affected by the failure in the transmission grid that served a large portion of the Northeastern United States and Canada during the August 2003 blackout, the North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at a point within the grid can cause a systemic response that results in an extensive power outage. If a regions power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, Generations recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. In addition, if restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The FERC has issued electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. Generation also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. Generation is directly affected by price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation that is not used to meet its commitments to ComEd and PECO are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. In the event that lower wholesale prices of electricity reduce Generations current or forecasted cash flows, the carrying value of Generations generating units may be determined to be impaired and Generation would be required to incur an impairment loss. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money or energy will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. 113 In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell power in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. These policies include counterparty credit limits and, in some cases, require deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for netting of payables and receivables with the majority of its large counterparties. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The integration of the retail businesses of Exelon Energy subjects Generation to credit risk resulting from a new customer base. Immature Markets. Certain wholesale spot markets are new and evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. While the FERC has proposed initiatives to standardize wholesale spot markets, Generation cannot predict whether that effort will be successful, what form any of these markets will eventually take or what roles Generation will play in them. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. The Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. This activity, along with the effects of any specialized accounting for trading contracts, may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements to ComEd and PECO. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generation incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Excess capacity. Energy prices are also affected by the amount of supply available in a region. In the markets where Generation sells power, there has been a significant increase in the number of new power plants commencing commercial operations in recent years. An excess supply situation can lead to conditions with reduced wholesale market prices. Generations business is also affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations and Standard Market Platform. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which 114 Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features which may create trading barriers among the markets. The FERC has proposed initiatives, including RTOs, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers. The FERCs effort to promote RTOs throughout the states has generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. In addition, efforts to develop a RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. Generation supports the development of RTOs and implementation of standard market protocols for these regions, and others, but cannot predict their success or whether they will lead to the development of the envisioned large, successful wholesale markets. Approximately 79% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM, following PJMs expansion to the Midwest markets in 2004. The PJM market has been the most successful and liquid regional market. Generations future results of operations may be affected by the successful expansion of that market to the Midwest and the implementation of any market changes mandated by the FERC. Provider of Last Resort. As discussed above, ComEd and PECO each have POLR obligations that they have effectively transferred to Generation through full requirements contracts. Because the choice of electricity generation supplier lies with the customer, planning to meet these obligations has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. It is difficult for Generation to plan the energy demand of ComEd and PECO customers. The uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd and PECO load for which Generation must prepare increases Generations costs and may limit its sales opportunities. A significant under estimation of the electric load requirements of ComEd and PECO could result in Generation not having enough power to cover its supply obligation, in which case Generation would be required to buy power from third parties or in the spot markets at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be as favorable or as manageable as Generations long term supply expenses and thus could increase Generations total costs. As the demand for energy rises in the future, it may be necessary to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Both Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built at the risk of market participants. Any construction of new generating facilities by Generation would be subject to market concentration tests administered by the FERC. Effective management of capital projects is important to Generations business. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. The inability of Generation to effectively manage its capital projects could adversely affect Generations results of operations. The interaction between the energy delivery and generation businesses provides Exelon a partial hedge of wholesale energy market prices. The price of power purchased and sold in the open wholesale energy markets can vary significantly in response to market conditions. The amounts of power that Generation provides to ComEd and PECO vary from month to month; however, delivery requirements are generally highest in the summer when wholesale power prices are also generally highest. Therefore, energy committed by 115 Generation to serve ComEd and PECO customers is not exposed to the price uncertainty of the open wholesale energy market. Generally, between 60% and 70% of Generations supply serves ComEd and PECO customers. Consequently, Generation has limited its earnings exposure from the volatility of the wholesale energy market to the energy generated in excess of the ComEd and PECO requirements, as well as any other contracted longer term obligations. As its business continues to evolve, Generation is exploring other long term contracts or arrangements, which arrangements could limit its earnings opportunity if market prices are significantly different than its expectations. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. In recent years, IPPs and the generation companies of disaggregated utilities have installed new generating capacity at a pace greater than the growth of electricity demand. These new generating facilities may be more efficient than Generations facilities. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. Power Teams risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its power trading activities. Power Teams power trading (including fuel procurement and power marketing) activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage its exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not always be followed or may not work as planned and cannot eliminate the risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be wrong or inaccurate. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its power trading and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. General Business The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. The Registrants may continue to pursue investments that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. On December 20, 2004, Exelon announced the execution of the Merger Agreement with PSEG. Exelon and PSEG entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the Merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and PSEG are integrated in an efficient and effective manner, as well as general competitive factors in the market place. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. 116 Before the Merger may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from FERC, the SEC, the NRC and various utility regulatory, antitrust and other authorities in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. The governmental authorities from which these approvals are required may impose conditions on completion of the Merger or require changes to the terms of the Merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company and or the individual registrants following the Merger, any of which might have a material adverse effect on the combined company or the individual registrants following completion of the Merger. Additionally, the Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Exelon and PSEG, and further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, (1) Exelon may be required to pay PSEG a termination fee of $400 million plus PSEGs transaction expenses up to $40 million and (2) PSEG may be required to pay Exelon a termination fee of $400 million plus Exelons transaction expenses up to $40 million. Among the factors considered by the board of directors of Exelon in connection with its approvals of the Merger Agreement were the benefits as well as the risks that could result from the Merger. Exelon cannot give any assurance that these benefits will be realized within the time periods contemplated or even that they will be realized at all. The Registrants results of operations may be affected by the divestiture of businesses and facilities. The Registrants may decide to divest businesses or facilities that do not fit with their strategic objectives or improve their financial performance, such as the sale of Generations interest in Sithe and the divestiture or wind down of the remaining businesses of Enterprises. The Registrants may be unable to successfully divest or wind down these businesses and facilities for a number of reasons, including an inability to locate appropriate buyers or to negotiate acceptable terms for transactions. In addition, the amount that the Registrants may realize from a divestiture of a business or a facility is subject to fluctuating market conditions that may contribute to pricing and other terms that may be materially different than expected and could result in losses on sales. The Registrants also face risks in managing these businesses prior to their divestitures due to potential turnover of key employees and operating the businesses through their transition. The Registrants may also incur costs related to the wind down of businesses that will not be sold or unfavorable post close purchase price adjustments related to divestitures. Results of operations are affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. As a result of the rate freezes and caps under which the Energy Delivery business operates and price pressures due to competition, Energy Delivery may not be able to pass the costs of inflation through to its customers. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, which are increasing at a rate that greatly exceeds the rate of general inflation. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. Market performance affects decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under pension and postretirement benefit plans and to decommission Generations nuclear plants. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase the funding requirements of these obligations. 117 Regulations imposed by the SEC under PUHCA affect business operations. Exelon is subject to regulation by the SEC under PUHCA as a result of its ownership of ComEd and PECO. That regulation affects Exelons ability to: diversify, by generally restricting investments to traditional electric and gas utility businesses and related businesses; invest in or operate SEC approved, non utility companies beyond authorized financial and operating thresholds; issue securities, by requiring the prior approval of the SEC or, for ComEd and PECO, requiring the approval of state regulatory commissions; engage in transactions among affiliates without the SECs prior approval and, then, only at cost, since the PUHCA regulates business between affiliates in a utility holding company system; make dividend payments in specified situations; make intercompany loans in specified companies; restructure capitalization to the extent the equity ratio falls below 30%; and operate with a complex corporate structure. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which they conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. They believe that they have a responsible environmental management and compliance program; however, they have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with manufactured gas plant operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, they are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. As of December 31, 2004, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had reserves for environmental investigation and remediation costs of $124 million, $61 million, $47 million and $16 million, respectively, exclusive of decommissioning liabilities. The Registrants have accrued and will continue to accrue amounts that are believed prudent to cover these environmental liabilities, but the Registrants cannot predict with any certainty whether these amounts will be sufficient to cover their environmental liabilities. The Registrants cannot predict whether they will incur other significant liabilities for any additional investigation and remediation costs at additional sites not currently identified by them, environmental agencies or others, or whether such costs will be recoverable from third parties. In July 2004, the EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. This rule establishes national requirements for reducing the adverse environmental impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing power plants. The rule identifies particular standards of performance with respect to entrainment and impingement and requires each facility to monitor and validate this performance in future years. All of Exelons power generation facilities with cooling water systems are subject to the regulations. Facilities without closed cycle recirculating systems are potentially most affected. Those facilities are Clinton, Cromby, 118 Dresden, Eddystone, Fairless Hills, Handley, Mountain Creek, New Boston, Oyster Creek, Peach Bottom, Quad Cities, and Salem. Exelon is currently evaluating compliance options at its affected plants. At this time, Exelon cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the Phase II rule requirements will have on the operation of Generations generating facilities and its future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There are many factors to be considered and evaluated to determine the extent to which there will be financial and operational impacts. The considerations and evaluations include, but are not limited to obtaining clarifying interpretations of the requirements from state regulators, resolving outstanding litigation proceedings concerning the requirements, completing studies to establish biological baselines for each facility, and performing environmental and economic cost benefit evaluation of the potential compliance alternatives in accordance with the requirements. In June 2001, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) issued a renewed NPDES permit for Salem, expiring in July 2006, allowing for the continued operation of Salem with its existing cooling water system. An application for renewal of that permit, including a demonstration of compliance with the requirements of the recently published Federal Water Pollution Control Act Section 316(b) regulations, must be submitted to NJDEP by February 2, 2006 unless the NJDEP grants additional time to collect information to comply with the new regulations. NJDEP advised PSEG in a letter dated July 12, 2004 that it strongly recommends reducing cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed cycle cooling as a compliance option for Salem. PSEG has not made a determination regarding how it will demonstrate compliance with the Section 316(b) regulations. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations requires the retrofitting of Salems cooling water intake structure to reduce cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed cycle cooling, the retrofit and any resulting cost of interim replacement power could result in material costs of compliance to the owners of the facility. For additional information regarding environmental matters, see Environmental Regulation in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. The Registrants must actively manage the security of their people and facilities. As a result of the events of September 11, 2001, the electric industry has developed additional security guidelines. The electric industry, through the North American Electric Reliability Council, developed physical security guidelines, which were accepted by the United States Department of Energy and which may become mandatory through regulation or legislation. The gas industry, through the American Gas Association, developed physical security guidelines that were accepted by the United States Department of Transportation. Generation has also initiated security measures, including implementation of measures mandated by the NRC for the nuclear facilities, to safeguard its employees and critical operations and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of its energy production and delivery systems. These security measures have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in increased costs. On a continuing basis, Generation evaluates enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assesses long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures will involve additional expense to develop and implement. Changes in the availability and cost of insurance mean that the Registrants have greater exposure to economic loss due to property damage and liability. The Registrants carry property damage and liability insurance for their properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, due in part to terrorist acts, the 119 available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, the costs of obtaining such insurance may be higher and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. The Registrants are self insured for deductibles and to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under their property damage and liability insurance, together with the deductible, would negatively affect their results of operations. Taxation has a significant impact on results of operations. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and their ongoing operations to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants must also assess their ability to generate capital gains in future periods to realize tax benefits associated with capital losses previously generated or expected to be generated in future periods. Capital losses may be deducted only to the extent of capital gains realized during the year of the loss or during the three prior or five succeeding years. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. Generation has recorded valuation allowances against certain deferred assets associated with capital losses due to the consolidation of Sithe. Increases in state income taxes. Due to the revenue needs of the states in which the Registrants operate, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being contemplated. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase state income tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Exelon has purchased interests in three synthetic fuel producing facilities, which increased Exelons net income by $70 million in 2004. Tax credits generated by the production of synthetic fuel are subject to a phase out provision that gradually reduces tax credits as the annual average wellhead price per barrel of domestic crude oil increases into an inflation adjusted phase out range. If domestic crude oil prices remain high in 2005, the tax credits and net income generated by the investments may be reduced substantially. In addition, Exelon has recorded an intangible asset related to its investments in these facilities with a net carrying value of $208 million at December 31, 2004 that could become impaired if domestic crude oil prices continue to increase in the future. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties that may result in substantial cost in the event of non performance. Exelon and its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance by the third parties to these guarantees, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance could have a material impact on the financial statements of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding guarantees. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 120 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. Exelon and Generation are also exposed to market risks associated with commodity and equity prices. The inherent risk in market sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity security prices. Exelons RMC sets forth risk management policies and objectives and establishes procedures for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers from each of Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, ComEd and Generation) Commodity price risk is associated with market price movements resulting from excess or insufficient generation, changes in fuel costs, market liquidity and other factors. Trading activities and non trading marketing activities include the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels, including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. The availability and prices of energy and energy related commodities are subject to fluctuations due to factors such as weather, governmental environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and Federal regulatory policies and other events. Additionally, ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to CTC revenues collected from its customers. Generation Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including Energy Deliverys retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being cash flow hedged is three years. Generation has an estimated 90% hedge ratio in 2005 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to Energy Deliverys retail load. Energy Deliverys retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods Generations amount hedged declines to meet its commitment to Energy Delivery. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity is approximately a $32 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes a 90% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in the second quarter of 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into 121 purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted in an immaterial impact on earnings that included a $3 million (before income taxes) unrealized mark to market gain. The daily Value at Risk (VaR) on proprietary trading activity averaged $100,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin of $3,768 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Most non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133 discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Those that do not are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI) and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 and the ineffective portion of hedge contracts are recognized in current earnings. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated OCI and recognized in earnings as the hedged transactions occur. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings, as shown in the previous table, as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2003 $ (163 ) Total change in fair value during 2003 of contracts recorded in earnings 206 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (227 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 273 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (305 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2003 (216 ) Total change in fair value during 2004 of contracts recorded in earnings 158 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (197 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 475 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (512 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market 147 Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2004 $ (145 ) 122 The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2004 and 2003: December 31, 2004 2003 Current assets $ 403 $ 322 Noncurrent assets 373 100 Total mark to market energy contract assets 776 422 Current liabilities (a) (598 ) (505 ) Noncurrent liabilities (323 ) (133 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (921 ) (638 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities $ (145 ) $ (216 ) (a) Mark to market energy contract liabilities at December 31, 2003 do not reflect a $76 million interest rate swap that was included in current mark to market derivative liabilities within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2004 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 123 The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net liabilities, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within (in millions) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ (3 ) Prices provided by other external sources (190 ) (27 ) (4 ) (221 ) Total $ (194 ) $ (26 ) $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ (224 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ 11 $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ $ 9 Prices provided by other external sources (23 ) 6 1 (16 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 7 11 8 11 11 38 86 Total $ (5 ) $ 15 $ 9 $ 11 $ 11 $ 38 $ 79 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. 124 The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2004. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations andHedging Activities Interest Rate andOther Hedges Total CashFlow Hedges Accumulated OCI, January 1, 2003 $ (114 ) $ (14 ) $ (128 ) Changes in fair value (186 ) (2 ) (188 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net loss 167 167 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2003 (133 ) (16 ) (149 ) Changes in fair value (312 ) 17 (295 ) Disposal of existing Boston Generating contracts 16 16 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 290 290 Exelon Energy Company opening balance 2 2 Sithe Energies, Inc. opening balance (10 ) (10 ) Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2004 $ (137 ) $ (9 ) $ (146 ) ComEd ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to revenue collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO. Revenues collected from customers electing the PPO include commodity charges at market based prices and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. Because the change in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by the change in CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. ComEds CTC revenues are also collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. ComEds CTC rates are reset once a year in the spring, and customers can elect to lock in their CTC rates for a one or multiple year terms. Based on the current customers who have elected the one year CTC rates, ComEd has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the net impact of a 10% increase in the average market price of electricity from June 2005 through December 2005 which would result in a $5 million decrease in CTC revenues in 2005. A 10% decrease from June 2005 through December 2005 in market prices would result in a $5 million increase in CTC revenues in 2005. The result may be significantly affected if additional customers elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or if customers elect to purchase their energy from ComEd. Credit Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) ComEd and PECO Credit risk for Energy Delivery is managed by the credit and collection policies of ComEd and PECO, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently 125 obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. For the year ended December 31, 2004, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 2% of its retail electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 7% of its retail electric and gas revenues. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Generation Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2004 and 2003. They further delineate that exposure by the credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through ISOs which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2004 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 151 $ 33 $ 118 $ Non investment grade 98 20 78 1 63 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 3 3 Total $ 265 $ 53 $ 212 1 $ 63 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. 126 Rating as of December 31, 2003 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 116 $ $ 116 1 $ 20 Non investment grade 22 7 15 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 152 $ 7 $ 145 1 $ 20 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure and forward credit exposure related to Exelon Energy. Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2004 (a) Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 149 $ 2 $ $ 151 Non investment grade 91 7 98 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 3 3 Total $ 256 $ 9 $ $ 265 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Dynegy. As previously disclosed, at December 31, 2004, Generation was counterparty to Dynegy in various energy transactions and had financial and credit risk associated with Dynegy through Generations investment in Sithe. On January 31, 2005, Generation sold its investment in Sithe and, accordingly, is no longer subject to potential credit risk associated with Dynegys performance under the financial swap arrangement that Dynegy had with Sithe. See Note 25 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations sale of Sithe. Generation previously disclosed the future economic value of AmerGens purchased power arrangement with Illinois Power Company (Illinois Power), a subsidiary of Dynegy, could be affected by events related to Dynegys financial condition. On September 30, 2004, Dynegy sold Illinois Power to a third party with an investment grade rating, which eliminated Generations credit risk associated with Illinois Power and Dynegy. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may 127 be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets, which are administered by ISOs: PJM, ISO New England, New York ISO, California ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheet included a $486 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2004. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1,492 million, less unearned income of $1,006 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Variable Rate Debt. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2004, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $2 million decrease in Exelons pre tax earnings. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a decrease in pre tax earnings of less than $1 million at ComEd, PECO and Generation. Cash Flow Hedges. In September and October 2004, Exelon entered into forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. At the time of the swap trades, the debt issuance that these swaps were hedging was considered probable; therefore, Exelon accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as cash flow hedges. In December 2004, it became apparent that the timing of the debt issuance would be deferred until 2005 and, consequently, Exelon unwound the $240 million forward starting interest rate swaps. Exelon recognized an ineffectiveness gain of less than $1 million pursuant to SFAS No. 133. Additionally, Exelon paid approximately $4 million to the counterparties due to the swap unwind. The net loss resulting from the amount paid to the counterparties less the ineffectiveness gain will be amortized over the life of the new debt issuance. Based upon a revised date of expected debt issuance, Exelon entered into a new series of forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $200 million. At December 31, 2004, these interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, had an aggregate fair market value of $2 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at 128 December 31, 2004. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to Exelon. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2004 is estimated to be $6 million in the counterparties favor. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount Exelon would pay the counterparties. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2004 is estimated to be $10 million in Exelons favor. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount the counterparties would pay Exelon. In 2004, PECO entered into a forward starting interest rate swap in the aggregate notional amount of $75 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of a future financing. The debt issuance that this swap was hedging was considered probable; therefore, PECO accounted for this interest rate swap transaction as a hedge. PECO settled this swap designated as a cash flow hedge for net proceeds of approximately $5 million. The proceeds were recorded in other comprehensive income and are being amortized over the life of the debt issuance. At December 31, 2004, ComEd, PECO and Generation did not have any interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges. Fair Value Hedges. In 2004, ComEd entered into fixed to floating interest rate swaps in order to maintain its targeted percentage of variable rate debt associated with fixed rate debt issuances in the aggregate amount of $240 million. At December 31, 2004, these interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, had an aggregate fair market value of $9 million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2004. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount that would be paid by the counterparties to ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 2004 is estimated to be $16 million in ComEds favor. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount the counterparties would pay ComEd. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2004 is estimated to be $1 million in ComEds favor. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2004, this estimated fair value represents the amount the counterparties would pay ComEd. In 2004, ComEd settled certain interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate amount of $485 million for total proceeds of approximately $32 million, which included a $26 million settlement amount and $6 million of accrued interest. The $26 million settlement amount will be amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2004, Generations 129 decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $329 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 130 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview During 2004, ComEd has focused on living up to its reliability and safety commitments while pursuing greater productivity, quality and innovation. Highlights for the year included the following: Financial Results. ComEd experienced an overall decline in net income of 4% in 2004. This decline was primarily due to charges of $130 million recorded in connection with the early retirement of long term debt, lower operating revenues as a result of lower CTC collections, unfavorable weather and customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier or the PPO and higher purchased power expense. ComEds 2004 results were favorably affected by lower operating and maintenance and lower interest expense. Investment Strategy. ComEd continued to invest in its infrastructure, spending approximately $720 million in 2004 and expects to invest over $740 million in 2005. Financing Activities. ComEd met its capital resource commitments primarily with internally generated cash, a return of contributions to the intercompany money pool and the satisfaction of receivables. When necessary, ComEd obtains funds from external sources, including the capital markets, the intercompany money pool and through bank borrowings. ComEd repaid $1.2 billion of outstanding debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity, which is expected to result in annual interest savings of approximately $70 million in 2005, and repaid approximately $335 million of its long term payable to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust in 2004. Regulatory Developments. PJM Integration. On June 2, 2003, ComEd began receiving electric transmission reservation services from PJM and transferred control of ComEds Open Access Same Time Information System to PJM. On April 27, 2004 the FERC issued its order approving ComEds application, subject to certain stipulations, including a provision to hold certain utilities in Michigan and Wisconsin harmless from the associated impacts for ComEd to join PJM. ComEd agreed to these stipulations and fully integrated its transmission facilities into PJM on May 1, 2004. In the fourth quarter of 2004, ComEd entered into settlement agreements with all such Michigan and Wisconsin utilities requiring a total payment of approximately $4 million by ComEd. FERC has approved these agreements and payment is expected to be made in the first quarter of 2005. PECO and ComEds membership in PJM supports Exelons commitment to competitive wholesale electric markets and will provide Exelon the benefits of more transparent, liquid and competitive markets for the sale and purchase of electric energy and capacity. Upon joining PJM, ComEd began incurring administrative fees, which are expected to approximate $25 million annually. ComEd believes such costs will ultimately be offset by the benefits of full access to a wholesale competitive marketplace and increased revenue requirements, particularly after ComEds regulatory transition period ends in 2006; however, changes in market dynamics could affect the ultimate financial impact on ComEd. Through and Out Rates. In November 2004, the FERC issued two orders authorizing ComEd to recover from various entities revenue representing amounts ComEd will lose as a result of the elimination of through and out (T&O) charges, for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system, that were terminated pursuant to the FERC orders effective December 1, 2004. The collection of this revenue will be over a transitional period of December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. Several parties have sought rehearing of the FERC orders and there likely will be appeals filed in the matter after the rehearing order is issued. During 2004 prior to the termination of the net T&O charges, 225 ComEd collected T&O charges of approximately $50 million. As a result of this proceeding, ComEd may see reduced net collections of these charges. The ultimate outcome of this proceeding is uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on ComEds financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Rate Design Proceeding. Certain PJM transmission owners, including ComEd, are subject to a rate design proceeding before the FERC. The issues in this proceeding involve the methodology by PJM to charge customers for each PJM transmission owners regulated revenue requirement associated with its electric transmission facilities. On January 31, 2005, certain PJM transmission owners, including ComEd, made two separate filings in which the transmission owners jointly proposed to retain the present modified zonal rate design applicable within PJM and to implement three separate rate options for recovery of the revenue requirement associated with their new and existing facilities. As part of the group of PJM transmission owners, ComEd proposed to retain the present rate design through January 2008, at which time the FERC could reevaluate the continuation of the rate design in PJM. The ultimate outcome of this proceeding is uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on ComEds financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Open Access Transmission Tariff. On November 10, 2003, the FERC issued an order allowing ComEd to put into effect, subject to refund and rehearing, new transmission rates designed to reflect nearly $500 million of infrastructure investments made since 1998; however, because of the Illinois retail rate freeze and the method for calculating CTCs, the increase is not expected to significantly increase operating revenues until December 31, 2006. During the third quarter 2004, a settlement was reached, which was approved by the FERC in the fourth quarter of 2004, which established new rates that became effective May 1, 2004. Regulatory Outlook. Restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, with continuing debate at the FERC on regional transmission organizations (RTO) and standard market platform issues and in many states on the post transition format. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (like California), some states are adjusting or have adjusted current transition plans (like Ohio) and the State of Illinois (by 2007) is considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. ComEd will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations and controlling costs. As ComEd nears the end of the restructuring transition period and related rate freeze in Illinois, ComEd will also continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. ComEd will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements ComEd has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. ComEd will also work to ensure that its rates are adequate to cover its costs of obtaining electric power and energy from its suppliers, which could include Generation, for the costs associated with procuring full requirements power given ComEds Provider of Last Resort (POLR) obligations. In 2004, the ICC initiated and conducted a workshop process to consider issues related to retail electric service in the post transition period (i.e., post 2006). Issues addressed included utility wholesale supply procurement methodology, rates, competition and utility service obligations. All interested parties were invited to participate. The end result was a report to the Illinois General Assembly which was generally supportive of continuing under the existing regulatory framework and of utilities procuring supply through a full requirements, vertical tranche, descending clock auction process with full recovery of the supply costs from retail customers. In 2005, utilities, including ComEd, are expected to begin to seek regulatory approval of structures that implement the methodologies 226 supported by the report or such other proposals as they may choose to make. ComEd intends to make various filings during 2005 to begin the process to establish rates for the post transition period. These filings will include a proposal consistent with the auction process described above. All such methodologies and proposals will be subject to regulatory approval. ComEd cannot predict which particular proposals will be approved. Outlook for 2005 and Beyond. On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into a merger agreement with PSEG, a holding company for an electric and gas utility company primarily located and serving customers in New Jersey. The transaction, which has been unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, is expected to close in the first quarter of 2006. However, the transaction is contingent upon, among other things, the approval by shareholders of PSEG of the merger and shareholders of Exelon of the shares to be issued in the merger, antitrust clearance and a number of regulatory approvals and reviews. Exelon and ComEd are in the process of evaluating the impacts of the merger. ComEds financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including weather conditions and the continued successful implementation of operational improvement initiatives. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, operating revenues at ComEd generally will be favorably affected. In addition, ComEd is required annually to assess its goodwill to determine if it is impaired. Based on certain anticipated reductions to cash flows subsequent to the transition period (primarily competitive transition charges), ComEd believes there is a reasonable possibility that goodwill may be impaired in 2005 or future periods, and such impairment may be significant. While the U.S. economic recovery appears underway, ComEds current plans are based on moderate kilowatthour sales growth (1% to 2%). Continued implementation of cost reduction initiatives is needed to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. ComEds stable base of over three million customers will provide a solid platform with which to meet these challenges. 227 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2003 Favorable (unfavorable) variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ (11 ) OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 2,588 2,501 (87 ) Operating and maintenance 897 1,093 196 Depreciation and amortization 410 386 (24 ) Taxes other than income 291 267 (24 ) Total operating expense 4,186 4,247 61 OPERATING INCOME 1,617 1,567 50 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (369 ) (423 ) 54 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (26 ) 26 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (19 ) (19 ) Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) (130 ) Other, net 34 49 (15 ) Total other income and deductions (484 ) (400 ) (84 ) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,133 1,167 (34 ) INCOME TAXES 457 465 8 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 676 702 (26 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE, (net of income taxes) 5 (5 ) NET INCOME $ 676 $ 707 $ (31 ) Net Income Net income was affected by losses due to the extinguishment of long term debt, lower operating revenues primarily due to unfavorable weather and customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier or PPO and higher purchased power expense, partially offset by lower operating and maintenance expense and lower interest expense. 228 Operating Revenues ComEds electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) (a) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (b) Residential 26,463 26,206 257 1.0 % Small commercial & industrial 20,186 21,541 (1,355 ) (6.3 %) Large commercial & industrial 6,061 5,921 140 2.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 4,221 5,125 (904 ) (17.6 %) Total full service 56,931 58,793 (1,862 ) (3.2 %) Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 7,107 6,006 1,101 18.3 % Large commercial & industrial 12,422 9,909 2,513 25.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,410 1,402 8 0.6 % 20,939 17,317 3,622 20.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 3,594 3,318 276 8.3 % Large commercial & industrial 4,223 4,348 (125 ) (2.9 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 1,670 1,925 (255 ) (13.2 %) 9,487 9,591 (104 ) (1.1 %) Total delivery only and PPO 30,426 26,908 3,518 13.1 % Total retail deliveries 87,357 85,701 1,656 1.9 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (c) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative energy supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. 229 Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,295 $ 2,272 $ 23 1.0 % Small commercial & industrial 1,604 1,667 (63 ) (3.8 %) Large commercial & industrial 290 304 (14 ) (4.6 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 261 316 (55 ) (17.4 %) Total full service 4,450 4,559 (109 ) (2.4 %) Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 134 139 (5 ) (3.6 %) Large commercial & industrial 170 175 (5 ) (2.9 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 28 33 (5 ) (15.2 %) 332 347 (15 ) (4.3 %) PPO (c) Small commercial & industrial 246 225 21 9.3 % Large commercial & industrial 240 240 Public authorities & electric railroads 92 103 (11 ) (10.7 %) 578 568 10 1.8 % Total delivery only and PPO 910 915 (5 ) (0.5 %) Total electric retail revenues 5,360 5,474 (114 ) (2.1 %) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 443 340 103 30.3 % Total electric revenue $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ (11 ) (0.2 %) (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (c) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Variance Weather $ (113 ) Customer choice (104 ) Rate changes and mix (75 ) Volume 178 Electric retail revenue (114 ) PJM transmission 164 T&O charges (41 ) Other effects (20 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue 103 Total decrease in electric revenue $ (11 ) Weather. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild 230 weather reduces demand. The weather impact for the year ended December 31, 2004 was unfavorable compared to the same period in 2003 as a result of milder weather in 2004. Cooling degree days decreased 12% and heating degree days decreased 6% in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003. Customer Choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd; however, as of December 31, 2004, no alternative electric supplier had approval from the ICC, and no electric utilities had chosen, to enter the ComEd residential market for the supply of electricity. The decrease in revenues reflects increased non residential customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or the PPO. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the number of retail customers that had elected to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO was approximately 22,100 and 20,300, respectively, representing less than 1% of total customers in each year. Deliveries to such customers increased from 26,908 GWhs for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 30,426 GWhs for the year ended December 31, 2004, or from 31% to 35% of total annual retail deliveries. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the energy provided by alternative electric suppliers was 20,939 GWhs, or 24% of total retail deliveries, as compared to 17,317 GWhs, or 20% for the year ended December 31, 2003. Rate Changes and Mix. In addition to a change in revenue from the change in rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 compared to 2003, revenue changed as a result of rate changes. Starting in the June 2003 billing cycle, the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component, decreased the collection of CTCs as compared to the respective prior year period. ComEds CTC revenues decreased by $135 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the same period in 2003. This decrease was partially offset by increased wholesale market prices which increased energy revenue received under the ComEd PPO and by increased average rates paid by small and large commercial and industrial customers totaling $53 million. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, ComEd collected $169 million and $304 million, respectively, of CTC revenue. As a result of increasing mitigation factors, changes in energy prices and the ability of certain customers to establish fixed, multi year CTC rates beginning in 2003, ComEd anticipates that this revenue source will range from $90 million to $110 million annually in 2005 and 2006. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Volume. ComEds electric revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of effects of weather and customer choice, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. PJM Transmission. ComEds transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 relative to 2003 due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O charges. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected through and out (T&O) charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. 231 Purchased Power The changes in purchased power expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) PJM transmission (a) $ 164 Higher volume 94 PJM administrative fees (b) 15 Customers choosing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier (87 ) Weather (57 ) T&O charges (c) (22 ) Pricing related to ComEds PPA with Generation (7 ) Other (13 ) Increase in purchased power expense $ 87 (a) ComEds transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. See Operating Revenues above. (b) ComEd fully integrated into PJM on May 1, 2004. (c) Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected through and out (T&O) charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. Operating and Maintenance The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance and severance related expenses $ (115 ) Charge recorded at ComEd in 2003 (a) (41 ) Payroll expense (b) (25 ) Contractors (18 ) FERC annual fees (c) (11 ) Environmental charges (10 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (9 ) Incremental storm costs (7 ) Corporate allocations (d) 43 Tax consultant fees (e) 5 Employee fringe benefits (f) 3 Other (11 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (196 ) (a) In 2003, ComEd reached an agreement with various Illinois retail market participants and other interested parties. See Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Delivery Service Rates. (b) ComEd had fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEd is no longer charged annual fees by the FERC. PJM pays the annual FERC fees. This represents the reversal of annual FERC fees. (d) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in ComEd comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. (e) ComEd recorded a $5 million charge for contingent fees paid to a tax consultant. See Note 15 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (f) Employee fringe benefits include a $6 million reduction in net periodic postretirement benefit cost due to the adoption of FSP FAS 106 2, which was adopted during the second quarter of 2004. 232 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased for 2004 compared to 2003 as follows: 2004 2003 Variance Depreciation expense $ 329 $ 308 $ 21 Recoverable transition costs amortization 44 44 Other amortization expense 37 34 3 Total depreciation and amortization $ 410 $ 386 $ 24 The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Recoverable transition costs amortization remained constant in 2004 as compared to 2003. ComEd expects to fully recover its recoverable transition costs regulatory asset balance of $87 million by 2006. Consistent with the provision of the Illinois legislation, regulatory assets may be recovered at amounts that provide ComEd an earned return on common equity within the Illinois legislation earnings threshold. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased in 2004 primarily as a result of a $25 million credit in 2003 for use tax payments for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger and a refund of $5 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2003 partially offset by a refund of $8 million for the Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2004. Interest Expense and Distributions on Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities The aggregate of interest expense and distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities decreased as a result of scheduled principal payments, debt retirements and prepayments, and refinancings at lower rates. Effective December 31, 2003, upon the adoption of FIN 46 R, ComEd deconsolidated its financing trusts (see Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). ComEd no longer records distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities, but records interest expense to affiliates related to ComEds obligations to the financing trusts. This decrease was offset by $4 million of less allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) debt recorded during the year ended December 31, 2004 as a result of lower construction work in process balances. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates During the year ended December 31, 2004, ComEd recorded $19 million of equity in net losses of subsidiaries as a result of deconsolidating its financing trusts. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $1.2 billion of long term debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity. During 2004, ComEd recorded charges of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of these charges included the following: $86 million of prepayment premiums; $12 million of net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million of settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. 233 Other, Net The change in other, net primarily results from the reversal of a $12 million reserve for potential plant disallowance in 2003 as a result of the Agreement (see Operating and Maintenance above), a reduction in AFUDC equity of $5 million during 2004 as a result of lower construction work in process balances and a $5 million decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC (formerly Unicom Investments, Inc.) as a result of a lower principal balance. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 40% in 2004 and in 2003. See Note 9 of ComEds Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the effective income tax rate. Due to revenue needs of the states in which ComEd operates, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being contemplated. If these changes are enacted, they could increase ComEds state income tax expense. At this time, however, ComEd cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, and, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. As a result, ComEd cannot currently estimate the effect of these potential changes in tax laws or regulation. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle On January 1, 2003, ComEd adopted SFAS No. 143, resulting in income of $5 million, net of tax. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of SFAS No. 143. Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2002 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ (310 ) OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 2,501 2,585 84 Operating and maintenance 1,093 964 (129 ) Depreciation and amortization 386 522 136 Taxes other than income 267 287 20 Total operating expense 4,247 4,358 111 OPERATING INCOME 1,567 1,766 (199 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (423 ) (484 ) 61 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (26 ) (30 ) 4 Other, net 49 44 5 Total other income and deductions (400 ) (470 ) 70 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 1,167 1,296 (129 ) INCOME TAXES 465 506 41 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 702 790 (88 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF A CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE, (net of income taxes) 5 5 NET INCOME $ 707 $ 790 $ (83 ) 234 Net Income Net income was affected by lower operating revenues primarily due to unfavorable weather and customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier or PPO and higher operating and maintenance expense, partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense, lower purchased power expense and lower interest expense. Operating Revenues ComEds electric sales statistics are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) (a) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Full service (b) Residential 26,206 27,474 (1,268 ) (4.6 %) Small commercial & industrial 21,541 22,365 (824 ) (3.7 %) Large commercial & industrial 5,921 7,885 (1,964 ) (24.9 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 5,125 6,480 (1,355 ) (20.9 %) Total full service 58,793 64,204 (5,411 ) (8.4 %) Delivery only Small commercial & industrial 6,006 5,219 787 15.1 % Large commercial & industrial 9,909 7,095 2,814 39.7 % Public authorities & electric railroads 1,402 912 490 53.7 % 17,317 13,226 4,091 30.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 3,318 3,152 166 5.3 % Large commercial & industrial 4,348 5,131 (783 ) (15.3 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 1,925 1,347 578 42.9 % 9,591 9,630 (39 ) (0.4 %) Total delivery only and PPO 26,908 22,856 4,052 17.7 % Total retail deliveries 85,701 87,060 (1,359 ) (1.6 %) (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWhs. (b) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. 235 Electric Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,272 $ 2,381 $ (109 ) (4.6 %) Small commercial & industrial 1,667 1,736 (69 ) (4.0 %) Large commercial & industrial 304 410 (106 ) (25.9 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 316 377 (61 ) (16.2 %) Total full service 4,559 4,904 (345 ) (7.0 %) Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 139 138 1 0.7 % Large commercial & industrial 175 154 21 13.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 33 28 5 17.9 % 347 320 27 8.4 % PPO (c) Small commercial & industrial 225 204 21 10.3 % Large commercial & industrial 240 278 (38 ) (13.7 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 103 71 32 45.1 % 568 553 15 2.7 % Total delivery only and PPO 915 873 42 4.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,474 5,777 (303 ) (5.2 %) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 340 347 (7 ) (2.0 %) Total electric revenue $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ (310 ) (5.1 %) (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Delivery only revenues from customers choosing an alternative electric supplier include a distribution charge and a CTC. Transmission charges received from an alternative electric supplier are included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (c) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue, sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. The changes in electric retail revenues for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Variance Weather $ (232 ) Customer choice (155 ) Rate changes (33 ) Volume 105 Other effects 12 Retail revenue $ (303 ) Weather. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. The weather impact for 2003 was unfavorable compared to 2002 as a result of cooler summer weather in 2003. Cooling degree days decreased 36% in 2003 as compared to 2002 and were partially offset by a 5% increase in heating degree days in 2003 as compared to the same period in 2002. Customer Choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from other suppliers. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd; however, as of December 31, 2003, no alternative 236 electric supplier had approval from the ICC, and no electric utilities had chosen, to enter the ComEd residential market for the supply of electricity. The decrease in revenues reflects increased non residential customers in Illinois electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or the PPO. In 2003, the energy provided by alternative electric generation suppliers was 17,317 GWhs, or 20% of total retail deliveries, as compared to 13,226 GWhs, or 15%, in 2002. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the number of retail customers that had elected to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO was approximately 20,300 and 22,700, respectively, representing less than 1% of total customers in each year. Deliveries to such customers increased from 22,856 GWhs in 2002 to 26,908 GWhs in 2003, or from 26% to 31% of total annual retail deliveries. Rate Changes. The decrease in revenues attributable to rate changes reflects lower wholesale market prices in the first six months of 2003, which were partially offset by higher wholesale market prices in the last six months of 2003, decreasing revenue received under ComEds PPO by $31 million. Starting in the June 2003 billing cycle, the increased wholesale market price of electricity, net of increased mitigation factors, as a result of the Agreement described in Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, decreased the collection of CTCs as compared to the respective period in 2002; however, for the two year period, CTC revenues were consistent. Volume. Revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, primarily large and small commercial and industrial. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue for 2003 as compared to 2002 decreased $7 million primarily due to a 2002 reimbursement from Generation of $12 million. Purchased Power Purchased power expense decreased in 2003 primarily due to a $135 million decrease as a result of customers choosing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier, a $115 million decrease due to unfavorable weather and a $20 million decrease due to additional energy billed in 2002 under the PPA with Generation, partially offset by an increase of $74 million due to pricing changes related to ComEds PPA with Generation, an increase of $62 million under the PPA related to decommissioning collections associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 143 that were not included in purchased power in 2002 and an increase of $59 million due to higher volume. The $62 million increase in purchased power expense related to SFAS No. 143 had no impact on net income as it was offset by lower regulatory asset amortization expense (see Depreciation and Amortization below). Operating and Maintenance Operating and maintenance expense increased in 2003 reflecting $137 million due to The Exelon Way severance and related postretirement health and welfare benefits accruals and pension and postretirement curtailment costs, a net charge of $41 million in 2003 as the result of the Agreement as more fully described in Note 2 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, $14 million of additional storm related costs and $7 million increase in employee fringe benefits partially offset by $78 million decrease in payroll expenses due to fewer employees and $6 million lower net MGP investigation and remediation reserve charges. 237 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense decreased for 2003 compared to 2002 as follows: 2003 2002 Variance Depreciation expense $ 308 $ 334 $ (26 ) Recoverable transition costs amortization 44 102 (58 ) Other amortization expense 34 86 (52 ) Total depreciation and amortization $ 386 $ 522 $ (136 ) The decrease in depreciation expense is primarily due to lower depreciation rates effective July 1, 2002, partially offset by higher property, plant and equipment balances. The lower rates followed completion of a depreciation study and reflect ComEds significant construction program in recent years, changes in and development of new technologies, and changes in estimated plant service lives since the last depreciation study. The reduction in depreciation expense was $48 million ($29 million, net of income taxes) in 2003 compared to 2002. Recoverable transition costs amortization decreased in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the same period in 2002. The decrease is a result of additional amortization in 2002. ComEd expects to fully recover its recoverable transition costs regulatory asset balance of $131 million by 2006. Consistent with the provision of the Illinois legislation, regulatory assets may be recovered at amounts that provide ComEd an earned return on common equity within the Illinois legislation earnings threshold. The decrease in other amortization primarily relates to the reclassification of a regulatory asset for nuclear decommissioning as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 143 in 2003 (see Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). This decrease had no impact on net income as it was offset by increased purchased power from Generation (see Purchased Power above). Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased in 2003 primarily as a result of a $25 million credit in 2003 for use tax payments for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger and a $5 million refund in 2003 of Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes, partially offset by $8 million in Illinois Public Utility Fund taxes in 2003 that were not charged in 2002 and a $5 million real estate tax refund in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consist of interest expense and distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Interest charges decreased in 2003 as a result of refinancing existing debt at lower interest rates for 2003 as compared to 2002 and the pay down of $340 million in ComEd Transitional Trust Notes. Other, Net Other, net increased in 2003 as compared to 2002. In 2002, ComEd recorded a $12 million reserve accrual for a potential plant disallowance from an audit performed in conjunction with ComEds delivery services rate case. This $12 million was reversed in March 2003 as a result of the Agreement as more fully described in Note 2 to ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These items were partially offset by a $9 million reduction in intercompany interest income from UII, LLC (formerly Unicom Investments Inc.), reflecting a lower principal balance, and a $10 million decrease in various other income and deduction items. 238 Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 39.8% in 2003 as compared to 39.0% in 2002. Due to revenue needs of the states in which ComEd operates, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being contemplated. If these changes are enacted, they could increase ComEds state income tax expense. At this time, however, ComEd cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, and, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. As a result, ComEd cannot currently estimate the effect of these potential changes in tax laws or regulation. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle On January 1, 2003, ComEd adopted SFAS No. 143, resulting in income of $5 million, net of tax. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of SFAS No. 143. 239 Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that ComEd no longer has access to external financing sources at reasonable terms, ComEd has access to a revolving credit facility that it currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources, including cash, are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction expenditures, repayments of maturing debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. ComEds construction expenditures utilize a significant amount of cash on projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd operates in a rate regulated environment in which recovery of current cash expenditures takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, ComEd has historically operated with a working capital deficit. However, ComEd expects operating cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements. Cash Flows from Operating Activities ComEds cash flow from operating activities primarily results from sales of electricity to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices. ComEds future cash flows will depend upon the ability to achieve operating cost reductions, and the impact of the economy, weather and customer choice on its revenues. Cash flows from operations have been and are expected to continue to provide a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements. Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in ComEds rate regulatory environment, although any effects are not expected to hinder ComEds ability to fund its business requirements. See Business Outlook and Challenges in Managing our Business. Cash flows provided by operations for the years 2004 and 2003 were $1,330 million and $948 million, respectively. Changes in ComEds cash flows from operations are generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as further adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations, ComEds operating cash flows in 2004 were affected by the following items: Payments to Generation in 2003 for amounts owed under the PPA. At December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, ComEd had accrued payments due to Generation under the PPA of $189 million, $171 million and $339 million, respectively. ComEd participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Discretionary contributions by ComEd to the plans were $244 million for 2004 compared to $178 million in 2003. See Note 11 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding pension and postretirement benefits. During 2004 and 2003, ComEd made Federal and state income tax payments of $356 million and $579 million, respectively. During 2004, ComEd paid $86 million for prepayment premiums on the early retirement of debt. See Cash Flows from Financing Activities for further information regarding debt retirements pursuant to the accelerated liability management plan. 240 ComEd has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. See Note 9 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these tax positions. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows provided by investing activities were $486 million in 2004 compared to $893 million used in investing activities in 2003. The increase in cash flows was primarily attributable to the net contributions of $502 million to the Exelon intercompany money pool and by the receipt of $1,071 million from UII, LLC (formerly Unicom Investments Inc.) in 2004 related to an intercompany note payable partially offset by the 2003 receipt of $213 million from UII, LLC. ComEd estimates that it will spend approximately $742 million in total capital expenditures for 2005. Approximately one half of the budgeted 2005 expenditures are for continuing efforts to improve the reliability of its transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amount is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. ComEd anticipates that it will obtain financing, when necessary, through borrowings, the issuance of debt or preferred securities, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2004 were $1,820 million as compared to $37 million in 2003. The increase in cash flows used in financing activities is primarily attributable to the net increase in long term debt retirements during 2004 of $1,638 million and a decrease of $276 million in contributions received from Exelon. ComEd retired $1.2 billion of long term debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity, as part of ComEds accelerated liability management plan in 2004. Additionally, ComEd paid a $457 million dividend to Exelon during 2004 compared to a $401 million dividend in 2003. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, ComEd may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen its balance sheet. Credit Issues Credit Facility. A description of Exelons credit agreements, and ComEds participation therein, is set forth above under Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2004, ComEds capital structure consisted of 27% long term debt, 15% long term debt to financing trusts, and 58% common equity. Long term debt to financing trusts includes obligations to ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III and the ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, which are no longer consolidated within the financial statements due to the adoption of FIN 46 R as of December 31, 2003. Intercompany Money Pool. A description of the intercompany money pool, and ComEds participation therein, is set forth above under Credit Issues Intercompany Money Pool in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. During 2004, ComEd earned $3 million in 241 interest on its contributions to and paid less than $1 million on borrowings from the intercompany money pool. Security Ratings. A description of ComEds security ratings is set forth above under Credit Issues Security Ratings in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. Shelf Registration. A description of ComEds shelf registration is set forth above under Credit Issues Shelf Registration in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. Fund Transfer Restrictions. Under applicable Federal law, ComEd can only pay dividends from retained or current earnings. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing II and ComEd Financing III (the Financing Trusts) that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities which were issued to the Financing Trusts; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of the Financing Trusts; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. At December 31, 2004, ComEd had retained earnings of $1,102 million (all of which had been appropriated for future dividend payments). ComEd is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2010 and beyond 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Long term debt $ 3,165 $ 272 $ 475 $ 434 $ 1,984 Long term debt to financing trusts 1,702 321 680 340 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,412 169 282 217 744 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 829 96 134 64 535 Operating leases 165 20 37 32 76 Other purchase commitments (b) 20 17 3 Chicago agreement (c) 48 6 12 12 18 Regulatory commitments 20 10 10 Total contractual obligations $ 7,361 $ 911 $ 1,633 $ 1,099 $ 3,718 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2004 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Commitments for services and materials. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: regulatory commitments, see Note 2 long term debt, see Note 8 242 operating leases, see Note 15 Midwest Agreement, see Note 15 See Note 15 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of ComEds commercial commitments as of December 31, 2004. IRS Refund Claims. ComEd entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the IRS and previously made refundable prepayments to the tax consultant of $11 million. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome of the claims and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS, if any. The ultimate net cash outflow from ComEd related to all the agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claim with the IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to ComEds financial position, results of operations and cash flows. ComEds tax benefits for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill pursuant to a reallocation of the PECO / Unicom Merger purchase price. See below for a discussion of the final approval of the income tax refund. During 2004, the IRS granted preliminary approval for one of ComEds refund claims. As such, ComEd believes it is probable that a fee will ultimately be paid to the tax consultant. Therefore, ComEd recorded an expense of $5 million (pre tax), which resulted in a decrease to the prepayment from $11 million to $6 million. The charge represents an estimate of the fee to the tax consultant which may be adjusted upward or downward depending on the IRS final calculation of the tax and interest benefit. As of December 31, 2004, ComEd had not reflected the tax benefit associated with the refund claim pending final approval of the IRS; however, as described above, the net income statement impact for ComEd is anticipated to be neutral or positive. In the first quarter of 2005, ComEd received final approval for the income tax refund described above; however the calculation of the claim, including interest has not been finalized. As a portion of the refund will be recorded against goodwill under the provisions of EITF Issue No. 93 7, Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination, the net result is not anticipated to have a material impact on ComEds results of operations. Variable Interest Entities. Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were deconsolidated from the financial statements of ComEd in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Approximately $1.7 billion of debt issued by ComEd to these financing trusts was recorded as debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business ComEd conducts business in the electric transmission and distribution industry in the United States. That industry is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. ComEds energy delivery business remains highly regulated and capital intensive. A description of the business outlook and challenges in managing ComEds business is set forth above under Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business Energy Delivery and 243 General Business in Exelon Corporation Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. Further discussion of ComEds liquidity position and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with credit, interest rates and commodity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 244 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview Financial Results. PECOs net income on common stock decreased 3% in 2004 primarily due to a 4% decrease in operating income. The decrease in operating income reflects higher taxes other than income, due primarily to the reduction of real estate tax accruals in 2003, and higher depreciation and amortization expense due to increased CTC amortization. Partially offsetting these unfavorable factors on operating income were slightly higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel and lower operating and maintenance expense. Investment Strategy. PECO continued to invest in its infrastructure, spending approximately $225 million in 2004, and expects to invest over $280 million in 2005. Financing Activities. PECO met its capital resource commitments with internally generated cash. When necessary, PECO obtains funds from external sources, including the capital markets, the intercompany money pool and through bank borrowings. During 2004, PECO refinanced $75 million of First Mortgage Bonds, retired $157 million of Pollution Control Revenue Refunding Bonds, made scheduled repayments of $393 million on its long term debt to PETT, and repaid $46 million of commercial paper. Regulatory Developments. Through and Out Rates. In November 2004, the FERC issued two orders authorizing PECO to recover from various entities revenue representing amounts PECO will lose as a result of the elimination of through and out (T&O) charges, for energy flowing across PECOs transmission system, that were terminated pursuant to the FERC orders effective December 1, 2004. The collection of this revenue will be over a transitional period of December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006. Several parties have sought rehearing of the FERC orders and there likely will be appeals filed in the matter after the rehearing order is issued. During 2004 prior to the termination of T&O charges, PECO collected net T&O charges of approximately $3 million. As a result of this proceeding, PECO may be come a net payer of these charges. The ultimate outcome of this proceeding is uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on PECOs financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Rate Design Proceeding. Certain PJM transmission owners, including PECO, are subject to a rate design proceeding before the FERC. The issues in this proceeding involve the methodology used by PJM to charge customers for each PJM transmission owners regulated revenue requirement associated with its electric transmission facilities. On January 31, 2005, certain PJM transmission owners, including PECO, made two separate filings in which the transmission owners jointly proposed to retain the present modified zonal rate design applicable within PJM and to implement three separate rate options for recovery of the revenue requirement associated with their new and existing facilities. As part of the group of PJM transmission owners, PECO proposed to retain the present rate design through January 2008, at which time the FERC could reevaluate the continuation of the rate design in PJM. The ultimate outcome of this proceeding is uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on PECOs financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Regulatory Outlook. Restructuring in the U.S. electric industry is at a crossroads at both the Federal and state levels, with continuing debate at the FERC on regional transmission organizations (RTOs) and standard market platform issues and in many states on the post transition format. Some states abandoned failed transition plans (e.g. California), some states are adjusting or have adjusted current transition plans (e.g. Ohio), and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (by 2011) is considering options to preserve choice for large customers and rate stability for mass market customers, while ensuring the financial returns needed for continuing investments in reliability. PECO will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations and controlling costs. 282 As PECO looks toward the end of the restructuring transition period for which its transmission and distribution rates are capped in Pennsylvania (2006), PECO will also continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. PECO will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements PECO has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. PECO will also work to ensure that its rates are adequate to cover its costs of obtaining electric power and energy from its suppliers, which could include Generation, for the costs associated with procuring full requirements power given PECOs Provider of Last Resort (POLR) obligations. As in the past, by working together with all interested parties, PECO believes it can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers; however, if PECO is unsuccessful, its results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected after the transition period. Outlook for 2005 and Beyond. On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into a merger agreement with PSEG, a holding company for an electric and gas utility company primarily located and serving customers in New Jersey. The transaction, which has been unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, is expected to close in the first quarter of 2006. However, the transaction is contingent upon, among other things, the approval by shareholders of PSEG of the merger and shareholders of Exelon of the shares to be issued in the merger, antitrust clearance and a number of regulatory approvals and reviews. Exelon and PECO are in the process of evaluating the impacts of the merger. PECOs financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including weather conditions and successful implementation of operational improvement initiatives. If weather is warmer than normal in the summer months or colder than normal in the winter months, operating revenues at PECO generally will be favorably affected. While the U.S. economic recovery appears underway, PECOs current plan is based on moderate sales growth (between 1% and 2% for electric and gas). Continued implementation of cost reduction initiatives is needed to offset labor and material cost escalation, especially the double digit increases in health care costs. PECOs stable base of 1.5 million electric and 460,000 gas customers will provide a solid platform with which to meet these challenges. 283 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 4,487 $ 4,388 $ 99 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 1,644 1,677 33 Fuel 528 419 (109 ) Operating and maintenance 547 576 29 Depreciation and amortization 518 487 (31 ) Taxes other than income 236 173 (63 ) Total operating expense 3,473 3,332 (141 ) OPERATING INCOME 1,014 1,056 (42 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (303 ) (324 ) 21 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (8 ) 8 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (25 ) (25 ) Other, net 18 2 16 Total other income and deductions (310 ) (330 ) 20 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 704 726 (22 ) INCOME TAXES 249 253 4 NET INCOME 455 473 (18 ) Preferred stock dividends 3 5 2 NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 452 $ 468 $ (16 ) Net Income on Common Stock PECOs net income on common stock decreased 3% in 2004 primarily due to a 4% decrease in operating income. The decrease in operating income reflects higher taxes other than income, due primarily to the reduction of real estate tax accruals in 2003, and higher depreciation and amortization expense due to increased CTC amortization. Partially offsetting these unfavorable factors on operating income were slightly higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel and lower operating and maintenance expense. 284 Operating Revenue PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 10,349 11,358 (1,009 ) (8.9 %) Small commercial & industrial 6,728 6,624 104 1.6 % Large commercial & industrial 14,908 14,739 169 1.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 914 897 17 1.9 % 32,899 33,618 (719 ) (2.1 %) Delivery only (b) Residential 2,158 900 1,258 139.8 % Small commercial & industrial 1,687 1,455 232 15.9 % Large commercial & industrial 760 780 (20 ) (2.6 %) 4,605 3,135 1,470 46.9 % Total retail deliveries 37,504 36,753 751 2.0 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier. Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,317 $ 1,444 $ (127 ) (8.8 %) Small commercial & industrial 756 753 3 0.4 % Large commercial & industrial 1,113 1,090 23 2.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 80 80 3,266 3,367 (101 ) (3.0 %) Delivery only (b) Residential 164 65 99 152.3 % Small commercial & industrial 86 75 11 14.7 % Large commercial & industrial 20 21 (1 ) (4.8 %) 270 161 109 67.7 % Total electric retail revenues 3,536 3,528 8 0.2 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 203 215 (12 ) (5.6 %) Total electric revenue $ 3,739 $ 3,743 $ (4 ) (0.1 %) (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 285 The changes in electric retail revenues for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Variance Volume $ 148 Rate change 20 Customer choice (78 ) Weather (63 ) Rate mix (19 ) Electric retail revenue $ 8 Volume. Exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, higher delivery volume increased PECOs revenue $148 million compared to 2003, related primarily to an increased number of customers and increased usage by all customer classes. Rate Change. Revenues increased $20 million due to a scheduled phase out of merger related rate reductions. In connection with the PUCs approval of the merger of PECO, Unicom Corporation, and Exelon in 2000, PECO entered into a settlement agreement with the PUC and agreed to $200 million in aggregate rate reductions for all customers over the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005. Consequently, rates were reduced from the levels that otherwise would have been in effect pursuant to the PUC approved restructuring settlement by $60 million annually until January 1, 2004 when the reduction decreased to $40 million annually, which will be in effect through December 31, 2005. Customer Choice. All PECO customers may choose to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice does not affect kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. Also, operating income is not affected by customer choice since reduced revenues are offset by reduced purchase power expense. In 2004, the energy provided by alternative electric suppliers was 4,605 GWhs or 12% as compared to 3,135 GWhs or 9% in 2003. As of December 31, 2004, the number of customers served by alternative electric suppliers was 101,500 or 7% as compared to 312,600 or 20% as of December 31, 2003. The decrease in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice primarily relates to residential customers selecting or being assigned to an alternative electric supplier. The increase in energy provided by alternative electric suppliers was due to the assignment of residential customers to alternative electric suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. The decrease in the number of customers served by alternative electric suppliers was due to these residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Weather. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. The weather impact was unfavorable compared to the prior year reflecting warmer winter weather. Heating degree days decreased 5% in 2004 compared to 2003. Cooling degree days remained relatively unchanged compared to 2003. Rate Mix. The decrease in revenues from rate mix is due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 compared to 2003. Electric wholesale and miscellaneous revenue includes PECOs proportionate share of the transmission revenues generated by PJM. Additionally, PECO pays PJM for its use of these 286 transmission assets, and this expense is recorded in purchased power. Electric wholesale and miscellaneous revenue decreased $12 million primarily due to lower PJM transmission revenue. PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,949 61,858 (1,909 ) (3.1 %) Transportation 27,148 26,404 744 2.8 % Total 87,097 88,262 (1,165 ) (1.3 %) Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 702 $ 609 $ 93 15.3 % Transportation 18 18 Resales and other 28 18 10 55.6 % Total $ 748 $ 645 $ 103 16.0 % The changes in gas retail revenue for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Variance Rate changes $ 111 Volume 3 Weather (21 ) Gas retail revenue $ 93 Rate Changes. The favorable variance in rates was attributable to increases in rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003, December 1, 2003 and March 1, 2004. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf for 2004 was 33% higher than the rate in 2003. PECOs gas cost rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC and are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in rates. Effective December 1, 2004, the PUC approved a decrease in PECOs rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause as a result of lower gas costs. Changes in PECOs rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause have no impact on operating income. Volume. Exclusive of the effect of weather conditions, revenues were higher in 2004 compared to 2003 due primarily to increased sales in the small commercial and industrial class. Weather. The weather conditions were unfavorable in 2004 compared to 2003. Heating degree days in PECOs service territory decreased 5% in 2004 compared to 2003. Resales and other revenue increased $10 million primarily due to increased off system sales. Purchased Power The decrease in purchased power expense was attributable to $78 million from customers in Pennsylvania assigned to or selecting an alternative electric supplier, a $27 million decrease associated with lower sales due to unfavorable weather conditions and a $15 million decrease in PJM transmission expense, partially offset by an increase of $69 million related to increased sales exclusive of weather conditions and $18 million of higher prices. 287 Fuel The increase in fuel expense in 2004 was primarily attributable to $111 million of higher gas costs and $14 million related to increased off system sales, partially offset by a $15 million decrease associated with lower sales due to unfavorable weather conditions. Operating and Maintenance The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Severance and severance related expenses $ (17 ) Automated meter reading system implementation costs in 2003 (16 ) Incremental storm costs (a) (14 ) Payroll expense (b) (11 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (4 ) Corporate allocations (c) 34 Other (1 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (29 ) (a) Storm costs were significantly higher in 2003 primarily as a result of Hurricane Isabel. (b) PECO had fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in PECO comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased for 2004 compared to 2003, as follows: 2004 2003 Increase(Decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization $ 367 $ 336 $ 31 Depreciation expense 131 130 1 Other amortization expense 20 21 (1 ) Total depreciation and amortization $ 518 $ 487 $ 31 The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. In January 2005, PECOs Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system as part of a broader Energy Delivery systems strategy. The approval of this new system will result in the accelerated depreciation of PECOs current system, which is expected to result in additional annual depreciation expense in 2005 and 2006 of $15 million and $8 million, respectively, above 2004 levels. If additional systems changes are approved, additional accelerated depreciation may be required. Taxes Other Than Income The increase in taxes other than income in 2004 was primarily attributable to a $58 million reduction of real estate tax accruals in 2003 and $12 million related to the reversal of a use tax accrual in 2003 resulting from an audit settlement, partially offset by $4 million of lower payroll taxes. 288 Interest Expense and Distributions on Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities The aggregate of interest expense and distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt and refinancings at lower rates, partially offset by a reversal in 2003 of accrued interest expense on Federal income taxes of $8 million to reflect actual interest paid. Effective December 31, 2003, with the adoption of FIN 46 R, PECO deconsolidated its financing trusts (see Note 1 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). PECO no longer records distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiaries but records interest expense to affiliates related to PECOs obligations to the financing trusts. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates In 2004, PECO recorded $25 million of equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates as a result of deconsolidating its subsidiary financing trusts. Other, net The increase was primarily attributable to a reversal in 2003 of accrued interest on Federal income taxes of $14 million to reflect actual interest received and gains on disposition of assets in 2004. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 35% for 2004 and 2003. See Note 8 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the effective income tax rate. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2002 2003 2002 Favorable(unfavorable)variance OPERATING REVENUES $ 4,388 $ 4,333 $ 55 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 1,677 1,669 (8 ) Fuel 419 348 (71 ) Operating and maintenance 576 523 (53 ) Depreciation and amortization 487 456 (31 ) Taxes other than income 173 244 71 Total operating expense 3,332 3,240 (92 ) OPERATING INCOME 1,056 1,093 (37 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (324 ) (370 ) 46 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (8 ) (10 ) 2 Other, net 2 32 (30 ) Total other income and deductions (330 ) (348 ) 18 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES 726 745 (19 ) INCOME TAXES 253 259 6 NET INCOME 473 486 (13 ) Preferred stock dividends 5 8 3 NET INCOME ON COMMON STOCK $ 468 $ 478 $ (10 ) 289 Net Income on Common Stock The decrease in net income on common stock in 2003 was a result of higher fuel, operating and maintenance and depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by higher gas revenue, lower taxes other than income and lower interest expense. Operating Revenue PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 11,358 10,365 993 9.6 % Small commercial & industrial 6,624 7,606 (982 ) (12.9 %) Large commercial & industrial 14,739 14,766 (27 ) (0.2 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 897 852 45 5.3 % 33,618 33,589 29 0.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 900 1,971 (1,071 ) (54.3 %) Small commercial & industrial 1,455 415 1,040 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 780 557 223 40.0 % 3,135 2,943 192 6.5 % Total retail deliveries 36,753 36,532 221 0.6 % n.m. not meaningful (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (c) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from an alternative energy supplier. Electric Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,444 $ 1,338 $ 106 7.9 % Small commercial & industrial 753 865 (112 ) (12.9 %) Large commercial & industrial 1,090 1,086 4 0.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 80 79 1 1.3 % 3,367 3,368 (1 ) 0.0 % Delivery only (b) Residential 65 145 (80 ) (55.2 %) Small commercial & industrial 75 21 54 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 21 16 5 31.3 % 161 182 (21 ) (11.5 %) Total electric retail revenues 3,528 3,550 (22 ) (0.6 %) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 215 234 (19 ) (8.1 %) Total electric revenue $ 3,743 $ 3,784 $ (41 ) (1.1 %) n.m. not meaningful (a) Full service reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the delivery cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation from an alternative supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue and other wholesale energy sales. 290 The changes in electric retail revenues for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Variance Rate mix $ (25 ) Customer choice (12 ) Volume 13 Weather 3 Other effects (1 ) Electric retail revenue $ (22 ) Rate Mix. The decrease in revenues from rate mix is due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2003 compared to 2002. Customer Choice. All PECO customers may choose to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice does not affect kWh deliveries, but reduces revenue collected from customers because they are not obtaining generation supply from PECO. Also, operating income is not affected by customer choice since reduced revenues are offset by reduced purchase power expense. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the energy provided by alternative electric suppliers was 3,135 GWhs or 9% as compared to 2,943 GWhs or 8% for the year ended December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2003, the number of customers served by was 312,600 or 20% as compared to 277,800 or 18% as of December 31, 2002. The decrease in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice primarily relates to small commercial and industrial customers selecting or being assigned to an alternative electric supplier. Volume. Exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, higher delivery volume increased PECOs revenue $13 million compared to 2002, primarily related to increases in the residential customer class, reflecting customer growth, and increased usage in the small commercial and industrial customer classes. Weather. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. The weather impact was slightly favorable compared to the prior year reflecting colder winter weather during the beginning of the year, largely offset by cooler summer weather and warmer winter weather during the end of the year. Heating degree days increased 16% in 2003 compared to 2002. Cooling degree days decreased 21% compared to 2002. PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales 61,858 54,782 7,076 12.9 % Transportation 26,404 30,763 (4,359 ) (14.2 %) Total 88,262 85,545 2,717 3.2 % Revenue 2003 2002 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 609 $ 490 $ 119 24.3 % Transportation 18 19 (1 ) (5.3 %) Resales and other 18 40 (22 ) (55.0 %) Total $ 645 $ 549 $ 96 17.5 % 291 The changes in gas retail revenue for 2003 compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Variance Weather $ 71 Rate changes 51 Volume (3 ) Gas retail revenue $ 119 Weather. The weather impact was favorable in 2003 compared to 2002 reflecting colder winter weather during the beginning of the year, partly offset by warmer weather during the end of the year. Heating degree days in PECOs service territory increased 16% in 2003 compared to 2002. Rate Changes. The favorable variance in rates was attributable to increases in rates through the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003 and December 1, 2003. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf for 2003 was 11% higher than the rate in 2002. PECOs purchased gas cost rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC and are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in rates. Lower gas resale and other revenues are attributable to a decrease in off system sales, exchanges and capacity releases during 2003 compared to 2002. Purchased Power The increase in purchased power expense was attributable to $10 million for higher electric delivery volume and $7 million for higher prices, including higher PJM ancillary charges, partially offset by decreased purchases of $9 million primarily related to additional small commercial and industrial customers selecting or being assigned to alternative electric suppliers in 2003. Fuel The increase in fuel expense in 2003 was primarily attributable to a $55 million increase in purchased gas volumes to meet increased customer demand and a $39 million increase due to higher gas costs, partially offset by a $28 million decrease in fuel expense associated with lower resale sales. Operating and Maintenance The increase in operating and maintenance expense was primarily attributable to $30 million of severance and severance related costs associated with The Exelon Way, $22 million of higher storm related costs, $16 million of increased employee fringe benefits, $7 million related to additional uncollectible accounts expense, partially offset by $13 million of lower costs associated with the initial implementation of automated meter reading services in 2002, and $15 million of lower payroll expense due to a lower number of employees. During 2002, PECO decreased its reserve for uncollectible accounts by $17 million as a result of a change in estimate. 292 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased for 2003 compared to 2002 as follows: 2003 2002 Variance Competitive transition charge amortization $ 336 $ 308 $ 28 Depreciation expense 130 125 5 Other amortization expense 21 23 (2 ) Total depreciation and amortization $ 487 $ 456 $ 31 The additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. The increase in depreciation expense was due to additional plant in service. Taxes Other Than Income The decrease in taxes other than income in 2003 was primarily attributable to a $58 million reduction of real estate tax accruals in 2003, a $16 million decrease in real estate tax expense in 2003, a $12 million reversal of the use tax accrual due to an audit settlement, partially offset by a $14 million reversal of an overaccrual of Pennsylvania sales and use tax in 2002. Interest Charges Interest charges consisted of interest expense, interest expense to unconsolidated affiliates and distributions on Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of a Partnership (COMPrS). The decrease in 2003 was primarily attributable to lower interest expense on long term debt of $38 million as a result of less outstanding debt and refinancing of existing debt at lower interest rates, and the reversal of accrued interest expense on Federal income taxes of $8 million in 2003. Other Income and Deductions The decrease in other income and deductions was primarily attributable to a reversal of interest expense on Federal income taxes of $14 million and an $18 million IRS refund, both of which occurred during 2002. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that PECO no longer has access to external financing sources at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources, including cash, are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction expenditures, repayments of maturing debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. PECOs construction expenditures utilize a significant amount of cash on projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which recovery of current cash expenditures takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, PECO has historically operated with a working capital deficit. However, PECO expects operating cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements. 293 Cash Flows from Operating Activities PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices and are weighted toward the first and third quarters of each fiscal year. PECOs future cash flows will be affected by its ability to achieve operating cost reductions and the impact of the economy, weather, customer choice and future regulatory proceedings on its revenues. Cash flows from operations have been and are expected to continue to provide a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements for the foreseeable future. Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in PECOs rate regulatory environment, although any effects are not expected to hinder PECOs ability to fund its business requirements. See Business Outlook and Challenges in Managing the Business. Cash flows provided by operations for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were $983 million and $814 million, respectively. Changes in PECOs cash flows from operations are generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as further adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations, PECOs operating cash flows in 2004 were affected by the following items: Deferred natural gas costs decreased $10 million during 2004 resulting in an increase to operating cash flows. During 2003, an increase in deferred natural gas costs of $50 million resulted in a decrease to operating cash flows. PECOs gas cost rates are subject to periodic adjustments by the PUC that are designed to recover from or refund to customers the difference between the actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in rates. During 2004, PECO was recovering fuel revenues from customers in excess of gas costs being incurred. During 2003, PECO was incurring gas costs in excess of fuel revenues being recovered from customers. PECO participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans. Contributions by PECO to the plans were $14 million in 2004 compared to $49 million for the same period in 2003. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities in 2004 were $248 million compared to $246 million in 2003 and reflect a $34 million increase in PECOs contribution to the Exelon intercompany money pool in 2004, partially offset by lower construction expenditures of $25 million in 2004. PECOs investing activities during 2004 were funded by operating activities. PECOs projected capital expenditures for 2005 are $281 million. Approximately 65% of the budgeted 2005 expenditures are for additions to or upgrades of existing facilities, including reliability improvements. The remainder of the capital expenditures support customer and load growth. Internally generated cash flow in 2005 is expected to meet capital requirements. PECOs proposed capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2004 were $676 million compared to $587 million in 2003. The increase in cash flows used in financing activities was primarily due to an increase in net retirements of long term debt of $388 million, partially offset by a decrease in repayments of short term debt of $108 million, a decrease in the retirement of preferred securities of $100 million and an 294 increase in contributions received from Exelon of $153 million. Additionally, PECO paid dividends of $394 million and $327 million during 2004 and 2003, respectively, of which $391 million and $322 million, respectively, were common dividends paid to Exelon. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, PECO may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen its balance sheet. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility. A description of Exelons credit agreements, and PECOs participation therein, is set forth above under Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2004, PECOs capital structure consisted of 78% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates, 21% common equity and 1% preferred securities. Long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates includes obligations to PETT, PECO Trust III, and PECO Trust IV, which are no longer consolidated within the financial statements due to the adoption of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R. PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.5 billion receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes but is excluded here to reflect amounts expected to be received by PECO from Exelon to pay future taxes), consisted of 63% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates, 36% common equity and 1% preferred securities. See Note 1 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 and FIN 46 R. Intercompany Money Pool. A description of the intercompany money pool, and PECOs participation therein, is set forth above under Credit Issues Intercompany Money Pool in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. During 2004, PECO earned less than $1 million in interest from its contributions to the intercompany money pool and paid less than $1 million on borrowings from the intercompany money pool. Security Ratings. A description of PECOs security ratings is set forth above under Credit Issues Security Ratings in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. Shelf Registration. A description of PECOs shelf registration is set forth above under Credit Issues Shelf Registration in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. Fund Transfer Restrictions. Under applicable law, PECO is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon and can pay dividends only from retained or current earnings. At December 31, 2004, PECO had retained earnings of $607 million. 295 Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2010 and beyond (in millions) Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Long term debt $ 1,200 $ 46 $ $ 450 $ 704 Long term debt to financing trusts 3,640 165 1,160 1,325 990 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 391 48 97 71 175 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,109 233 381 221 274 Operating leases 11 3 4 2 2 Other purchase commitments (b) 2 1 1 Total contractual obligations $ 6,353 $ 496 $ 1,643 $ 2,069 $ 2,145 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2004 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Commitments for services and materials. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: long term debt, including long term debt due to financing trusts, see Note 7 operating leases, see Note 14 See Note 14 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of PECOs commercial commitments as of December 31, 2004. Accounts Receivable Agreement. PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2005. PECO entered into this agreement to diversify its funding sources at favorable floating interest rates. At December 31, 2004, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $179 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, and a $46 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which was accounted for as a long term note payable and reflected on PECOs Consolidated Balance Sheet as long term debt due within one year. At December 31, 2003, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $176 million interest in accounts receivable which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140 and a $49 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable which was accounted for as a long term note payable. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data PECO Note 3 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO must continue to service these receivables and must maintain the level of the accounts receivable at $225 million. If PECO fails to maintain that level, the cash that would otherwise be received by PECO under this program must be held in escrow until the level is met. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposits. IRS Refund Claims. PECO entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and previously made refundable prepayments to the tax consultant of $5 million. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS, if any. 296 The ultimate net cash outflow to PECO related to all the agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claim with the IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to PECOs financial position, results of operations and cash flows. PECO cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. Variable Interest Entities. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46. Effective December 31, 2003, PETT and PECC were deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Approximately $3.6 billion of debt issued by PECO to these financing trusts was recorded as long term debt to PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business PECOs business is comprised of utility transmission and distribution operations, which provides electricity and natural gas to customers in Pennsylvania. The electric industry in the United States is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. PECOs energy delivery business remains highly regulated and is capital intensive. A description of the business outlook and challenges in managing PECOs business is set forth above under Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business Energy Delivery and General Business in Exelon Corporation Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. Further discussion of PECOs liquidity position and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 297 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview As of December 31, 2004, Generation consisted of its owned and contracted for electric generating facilities and energy marketing operations, a 50% interest in Sithe, 49.5% interests in two power stations in Mexico, and the competitive retail sales business of Exelon Energy Company. On January 31, 2005, Generation purchased the remaining 50% interest of Sithe and immediately sold its entire interest in Sithe. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, became part of Generation. Generations results of operations have not been adjusted to reflect Exelon Energy Company as a part of Generation for 2003 or 2002. Exelon Energy Companys results for the years ended December 31, 2003, and 2002 were as follows: Year ended December 31, 2003 Year ended December 31, 2002 Total revenues $ 834 $ 697 Intersegment revenues 4 8 Income (loss) before income taxes (29 ) (6 ) Income taxes (benefit) (11 ) 16 Net income (loss) (18 ) (33 ) Generation is one of the largest competitive electric generation companies in the United States, as measured by owned and controlled MWs. Generation combines its large generation fleet with an experienced wholesale and retail power marketing operation. Generation owns generation assets in the Northeast, Mid Atlantic, Midwest and Texas regions with a net capacity of 25,756 MWs, including 16,751 MWs of nuclear capacity, and controls another 8,701 MWs of capacity in the Midwest, Southeast and South Central regions through long term contracts. In addition to its owned generating facilities, Generation, through its investment in Sithe International, owns 49.5% interests in two Mexican business trusts that own the Termoel&eacute;ctrica del Golfo (TEG) and Termoel&eacute;ctrica Pe&ntilde;oles (TEP) power stations, two 230 MW petcoke fired generating facilities in Tamu&iacute;n, Mexico. Generations wholesale marketing unit, Power Team, a major wholesale marketer of energy, uses Generations energy generation portfolio, transmission rights and expertise to ensure delivery of energy to Generations wholesale customers under long term and short term contracts, including the energy, or load, requirements of ComEd and PECO. Power Team markets any remaining energy in the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. 2004 has been a year of operating accomplishments and execution of Generations overall investment strategy. Generation has focused on living up to its commitments while pursuing greater productivity, quality and innovation. 2004 highlights included the following: Financial Results. Generations net income was $673 million in 2004, compared to a $133 million net loss in 2003. The improvement in Generations financial results is primarily attributable to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest of AmerGen, the sale of Boston Generating, reductions in costs associated with The Exelon Way and an increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel (revenue net fuel) of over $750 million in 2004 compared to 2003. Also, Generation incurred a $945 million impairment charge related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating in 2003. The increase 330 in revenue net fuel is attributable to a reduction in realized purchased power and fuel costs due to Generations hedging program and the inclusion of AmerGen, Exelon Energy and Sithe in the 2004 results from operations. Also included in Generations financial results in 2004 is $32 million of net income resulting from the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for the adoption of FIN 46 R. The increase in net income was partially offset by an increase in operating and maintenance expense of $499 million associated with the consolidation of AmerGen, Sithe and Exelon Energy in 2004. In 2003, Generation also recorded $108 million of net income resulting from the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle upon the adoption of a new accounting standard that has a significant impact on how Generation accounts for its nuclear decommissioning obligations. Investment and Divestiture Activities. On May 25, 2004, Generation completed the sale, transfer and assignment of ownership of its indirect wholly owned subsidiary Boston Generating, which owns directly or indirectly the companies that own Mystic 4 7, Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River generating facilities, to a special purpose entity owned by the lenders under Boston Generatings $1.25 billion credit facility. The resulting gain of $85 million ($52 million after tax) was recorded within Generations results of operations during the second quarter of 2004. On September 1, 2004, Generation completed the transfer of plant operations and power marketing arrangements to the lenders special purpose entity and its contractors under Boston Generatings credit facility. In 2003, Generation recorded a pre tax impairment charge of $945 million related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating. On September 29, 2004, Generation exercised its call option and entered into an agreement to acquire Reservoirs 50% interest in Sithe for $97 million and, on November 1, 2004, Generation entered into an agreement to sell its anticipated 100% interest in Sithe to Dynegy, Inc. for $135 million in cash. On January 31, 2005, Generation closed on these two transactions and exited its investment in Sithe. The sale did not include Sithe International, which was sold to a subsidiary of Generation on October 13, 2004. Generation acquired Sithe International in exchange for its $92 million note receivable from Sithe in a non cash transaction. Effective January 26, 2005, Sithe Internationals name was changed to Tamuin International Inc. Financing Activities. Generation met its capital resource commitments primarily through internally generated cash. When necessary, Generation obtains funds from external sources, including the capital markets, the intercompany money pool and through bank borrowings. During 2004, Generation issued $157 million of pollution control bonds, decreased borrowings in the intercompany money pool by $133 million, net of $29 million of borrowings assumed as a result of the transfer of Exelon Energy, and distributed $505 million of dividends to Exelon. On December 31, 2004, Generation had $283 million in outstanding money pool loans to fund operations. Operational Achievements. Generation focused on the core fundamentals of providing efficient generation to its customers. Generations nuclear fleet achieved a 93.5% capacity factor in 2004 compared to 93.4% in 2003 while reducing the production costs of nuclear generation to 1.24 cents per kilowatt hour. Generations nuclear fleets production costs continue to be in the top quartile of the nuclear industry. Other operational achievements include improved commercial availability and improved safety metrics at Generations fossil fuel plants in 2004. Outlook for 2005 and Beyond. On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into a merger agreement with PSEG, a holding company for an electric and gas utility company primarily located and serving customers in New Jersey. The transaction, which has been unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, is expected to close in the first quarter of 2006. However, the transaction is contingent upon, among other things, the approval by shareholders of PSEG of the merger and shareholders of Exelon of the shares to be issued in the merger, antitrust clearance and a number of regulatory approvals and reviews. Exelon and Generation are in the process of evaluating the impacts of the merger. 331 In the near term, Generations financial results can be affected by a number of factors, including wholesale market prices, weather conditions, the continued successful implementation of operational improvement initiatives and Generations ability to generate electricity at low costs. Generation believes that Power Teams hedging program reduces the short term exposure to the variability in market prices. Generations results will be affected by long term changes in the market prices of power and fuel caused by supply/demand changes, the continued restructuring of the U.S. electric industry at both the Federal and state levels and various environmental regulations. Generating companies must also work with regulators to ensure that a viable capacity market exists to ensure that new units will be constructed in a timely manner to meet the growing demand for power. Generation will continue to be an active participant in these policy debates, while continuing to focus on improving operations and controlling costs and providing a fair return to its investors. To meet Exelons financial goals, Generations nuclear units must continue their superior performance while keeping costs under control despite inflationary pressures and increasing security costs caused by external events. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2003 Favorable (Unfavorable) OPERATING REVENUES $ 7,938 $ 8,135 $ (197 ) OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 2,325 3,587 1,262 Fuel 1,845 1,533 (312 ) Operating and maintenance 2,273 1,866 (407 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 294 199 (95 ) Taxes other than income 171 120 (51 ) Total operating expense 6,908 8,250 1,342 OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) 1,030 (115 ) 1,145 OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (167 ) (88 ) (79 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) 49 (63 ) Other, net 143 (262 ) 405 Total other income and deductions (38 ) (301 ) 263 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES, MINORITY INTEREST, AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 992 (416 ) 1,408 INCOME TAXES 372 (179 ) (551 ) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE MINORITY INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 620 (237 ) 857 MINORITY INTEREST 21 (4 ) 25 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 641 (241 ) 882 CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (net of income taxes) 32 108 (76 ) NET INCOME (LOSS) $ 673 $ (133 ) $ 806 332 Operating Revenues Operating revenues decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily as a result of the adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a net decrease in revenues of $980 million in 2004 as compared with the prior year. Generations sales in 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 3,749 $ 4,036 $ (287 ) (7.1 %) Wholesale and retail electric sales (b) 3,227 3,861 (634 ) (16.4 %) Total energy sales revenue 6,976 7,897 (921 ) (11.7 %) Retail gas sales 456 456 n.m. Trading portfolio 1 (1 ) (100.0 %) Other revenue (c) 506 237 269 113.5 % Total revenue $ 7,938 $ 8,135 $ (197 ) (2.4 %) Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Sales to affiliates (a) 110,465 117,405 (6,940 ) (5.9 %) Wholesale and retail electric sales (b) 92,134 107,267 (15,133 ) (14.1 %) Total sales 202,599 224,672 (22,073 ) (9.8 %) (a) Includes sales to Exelon Energy Company during 2003. As of January 1, 2004, Exelon Energy Company became part of Generation and is presented as retail electric sales. (b) Includes retail electric sales of Exelon Energy Company in 2004. (c) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, including Sithe in 2004, and fossil fuel sales. n.m. not meaningful Trading volumes of 24,001 GWhs and 32,584 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2004, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric Sales to Affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates decreased primarily as a result of the transfer of Exelon Energy Company to Generation effective January 1, 2004. Sales to Exelon Energy Company are no longer reported as affiliate revenue by Generation. Revenue from sales to Exelon Energy Company for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $209 million. Sales to Energy Delivery declined $76 million in 2004 as compared to the prior year, which further contributed to the decrease in sales to affiliates. The lower sales to Energy Delivery were primarily driven by cooler than normal summer weather and lower average transfer prices in 2004 as compared to the prior year. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Variance Effects of EITF 03 11 adoption (a) $ (966 ) Sale of Boston Generating (370 ) Addition of Exelon Energy Company and AmerGen operations 424 Other operations 278 Decrease in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (634 ) (a) Does not include $14 million of EITF 03 11 reclassifications related to fuel sales that are included in other revenues. 333 As previously described, the adoption of EITF 03 11 on January 1, 2004 resulted in the netting of certain revenues and the associated purchase power and fuel expense in 2004. The sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 resulted in less revenue from this entity in 2004 compared to the prior year. The acquisition of Exelon Energy and AmerGen resulted in increased market and retail electric sales of approximately $424 million compared to the prior year. The remaining increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily due to higher volumes sold to the market at overall higher prices. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher coal prices in the Midwest region and higher oil and gas prices in the Mid Atlantic region. Retail Gas Sales. Retail gas sales increased $456 million as a result of the transfer of Exelon Energy Company to Generation as of January 1, 2004. Other. Other revenues in 2004 include $235 million of revenue related to the results of Sithe Energies, Inc. The remaining increase in other revenues includes sales from tolling agreement, fossil fuel and decommissioning revenue. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generations supply of sales in 2004 and 2003, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 136,621 117,502 16.3 % Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 48,968 82,860 (40.9 %) Fossil and hydroelectric generation (c, d) 17,010 24,310 (30.0 %) Total supply 202,599 224,672 (9.8 %) (a) Excludes AmerGen for 2003. AmerGen generated 20,135 GWhs during the year ended December 31, 2004. (b) Sales in 2004 do not include 25,464 GWhs that were netted with purchased power GWhs as a result of the reclassification of certain hedging activities in accordance with EITF 03 11. Includes PPAs with AmerGen, which represented 12,667 GWhs in 2003. (c) Fossil and hydroelectric supply mix changed as a result of decreased fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. (d) Excludes Sithe and Generations investment in TEG and TEP. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003 consisted of the following: Variance Effects of the adoption of EITF 03 11 $ (980 ) Sale of Boston Generating (290 ) Midwest Generation (122 ) Mark to market adjustments on hedging activity (14 ) Price (13 ) Volume 267 Sithe Energies, Inc. 165 Addition of AmerGen and Exelon Energy Company 124 Other (87 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (950 ) 334 Adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in purchased power and fuel expense of $980 million. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in fuel and purchased power expense for Boston Generating is due primarily to the sale of the business in May 2004. Midwest Generation. The volume of purchased power acquired from Midwest Generation declined in 2004 as a result of Generation exercising its option to reduce the capacity purchased from Midwest Generation, as announced in 2003. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities at Generation were $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to losses of $16 million for 2003. Hedging activities in 2004 relating to Boston Generating operations accounted for a gain of $4 million and hedging activities relating to other Generation operations in 2004 accounted for a loss of $6 million. Price. The decrease reflects the forward hedging of fuel at lower costs than 2003 realized costs. Volume. Generation experienced increases in purchased power and fuel expense due to increased market and retail electric sales throughout its various sales regions. Sithe Energies, Inc. Under the provisions of FIN 46 R, the operating results of Sithe were included in Generations results of operations beginning April 1, 2004. See Note 3 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Sithe. Addition of AmerGen and Exelon Energy Company. Due to the transfer of Exelon Energy Company to Generation effective January 1, 2004, fuel expense increased $468 million as fuel purchases made by Exelon Energy Company did not previously affect Generations results. As a result of Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in AmerGen in December 2003, purchased power decreased $379 million in 2004. In prior periods, Generation reported energy purchased from AmerGen as purchased power expense. The decrease in purchase power from the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen was partially offset by an increase of $35 million in AmerGens nuclear fuel expense. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to $97 million of lower transmission expense resulting from reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM. Generations average margins per MWh sold for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2004 2003 %Change Average revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 33.94 $ 34.38 (1.3%) Wholesale and retail electric sales (b) 35.03 35.99 (2.7%) Total excluding the trading portfolio 34.43 35.15 (2.0%) Average supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (c) 20.59 22.79 (9.7%) Average margin excluding the trading portfolio 13.84 12.36 12.0% (a) Includes sales to Exelon Energy Company during 2003. As of January 1, 2004, Exelon Energy Company became part of Generation and is presented as retail sales. (b) Includes retail electric sales of Exelon Energy Company in 2004. (c) Average supply cost includes purchased power, fuel costs and PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. 335 Operating and Maintenance The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003 consisted of the following: Variance Addition of AmerGen and Exelon Energy Company $ 345 Sithe Energies, Inc. 71 Refueling outage costs (a) 50 Decommissioning related costs (b) 50 Pension, payroll and benefit costs, primarily associated with The Exelon Way (84 ) DOE Settlement (c) (52 ) Sale of Boston Generating (12 ) Other 39 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 407 (a) Includes refueling outage expense of $43 million at AmerGen. (b) Includes $40 million due to AmerGen asset retirement obligation accretion. (c) See Note 13 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions of the spent nuclear fuel storage settlement agreement with the DOE. The increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen, Exelon Energy Company and Sithe in Generations consolidated results for 2004. Decommissioning related costs increased primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in 2004 compared to the prior year. Accretion expense includes accretion of the asset retirement obligation and adjustments to offset the earnings impacts of certain decommissioning related activities, including revenues earned from ComEd and PECO, income taxes and depreciation of the asset retirement cost asset (ARC) to zero. The increase in operating and maintenance expense was partially offset with reductions in payroll related costs due to implementation of the programs associated with The Exelon Way, the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 and the settlement with the DOE to reimburse Generation for costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power costs data for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: 2004 2003 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5 % 93.4 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.43 $ 12.53 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 47.48 $ 43.29 (a) Includes AmerGen and excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. (b) Includes PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. The higher nuclear capacity factor is primarily due to ten fewer unplanned outages which offset the impact of one additional planned refuel outage. The lower production cost in 2004 as compared to 2003 is primarily due to lower fuel costs and the impact of the spent fuel storage cost settlement agreement with the DOE which offset the added cost for one additional planned refuel outage and costs associated with the Dresden generator repairs during outages in the fourth quarter of 2004. In 2004 as compared to 2003, the Quad Cities Units intermittently operated at pre Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. Generation plans additional expenditures to ensure safe and reliable operations at the EPU output levels by mid 2005. 336 Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating In connection with the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003, Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes). See Note 2 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Generations ownership interest in Boston Generating. Depreciation and Amortization The increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the immediate expensing of an asset retirement cost (ARC), totaling $49 million, recorded in 2004 for which no useful life remains. The ARC was originally recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 143, which requires the establishment of an asset to offset the impact of an increased asset retirement obligation (ARO). See Note 13 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the 2004 update to the ARO and ARC. The remaining increase was due to capital additions and the consolidation of Sithe, AmerGen and Exelon Energy. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense related to Boston Generating facilities, which were sold in May 2004. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased in 2004 compared to 2003 due primarily to $31 million of additional payroll and property taxes incurred from the consolidation of Sithe, AmerGen and Exelon Energy. The remaining increase resulted from a $15 million reduction to reserves recorded in 2003 for exposures associated with real estate taxes. Interest Expense The increase in interest expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily related to additional expense incurred from the consolidation of Sithe, the purchase of British Energys interest in AmerGen, and the issuance of $500 million of Senior Notes in December 2003. The increase was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense of $12 million related to the Boston Generating project debt. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2004 as compared to 2003 was due to a $47 million decrease resulting from Generations consolidation of AmerGen in 2004 following the purchase of British Energys 50% interest in AmerGen in December 2003 and the consolidation of Sithe in 2004. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2004 represents equity earnings from TEG and TEP following the transfer of ownership in Sithe International in the fourth quarter of 2004, and prior to that, relates to earnings recorded at Sithe for Sithes 49.5% interests in TEG and TEP. 337 Other, Net The components of other, net for 2004 as compared to 2003 are as follows: Other, Net 2004 2003 Variance Gain on sale of Boston Generating (a) $ 85 $ $ 85 Decommissioning related activities: Decommissioning trust fund income (b) 194 79 115 Decommissioning trust fund income AmerGen (b) 43 43 Other than temporary impairment of decommissioning trust funds (c) (268 ) (268 ) Contractual offset to decommissioning related activities (d) 66 (79 ) 145 Gain on sale of Sithe related assets 6 6 Impairment of investment in Sithe (255 ) 255 Other 17 (7 ) 24 Total $ 143 $ (262 ) $ 405 (a) See Note 2 of Generations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations sale of Boston Generating. (b) Includes investment income and realized gains/(losses). (c) Includes other than temporary impairments totaling $255 million, $5 million and $8 million on nuclear decommissioning trust funds for the former ComEd, PECO and AmerGen units, respectively. (d) Includes the elimination of non operating decommissioning related activity for those units that are subject to contractual accounting, including the elimination of decommissioning trust fund income and other than temporary impairments for certain nuclear units. See Notes 13 and 15 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the contractual accounting applied for certain nuclear units. The increase in other, net in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the $85 million gain ($52 million, net of taxes) on the sale of Boston Generating recorded in 2004, a $255 million impairment charge in 2003 related to Generations equity investment in Sithe Energies, Inc. and a $25 million loss resulting from the purchase and subsequent sale of 50% of the assets of Sithe to Reservoir (see Note 3 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) in 2003. The remaining increase was due to a $35 million increase in decommissioning trust fund investment income primarily related to AmerGen. Effective Income Tax Rate The effective income tax rate was 37.5% for 2004 compared to 43.0% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to income taxes associated with nuclear decommissioning trust fund activity, income tax deductions related to non taxable employee benefits and the dilution of the permanent income tax benefits due to the increase in pre tax income in 2004. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On March 31, 2004, Generation adopted FIN 46 R, resulting in a benefit of $32 million (net of income taxes of $22 million). On January 1, 2003, Generation adopted SFAS No. 143 resulting in a benefit of $108 million (net of income taxes of $70 million). 338 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2002 2003 2002 Favorable (Unfavorable) OPERATING REVENUES $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 1,277 OPERATING EXPENSES Purchased power 3,587 3,294 (293 ) Fuel 1,533 959 (574 ) Operating and maintenance 1,866 1,656 (210 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 (945 ) Depreciation and amortization 199 276 77 Taxes other than income 120 164 44 Total operating expense 8,250 6,349 (1,901 ) OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) (115 ) 509 (624 ) OTHER INCOME AND DEDUCTIONS Interest expense (88 ) (75 ) (13 ) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 49 87 (38 ) Other, net (262 ) 86 (348 ) Total other income and deductions (301 ) 98 (399 ) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE INCOME TAXES, MINORITY INTEREST, AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (416 ) 607 (1,023 ) INCOME TAXES (179 ) 217 396 INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE MINORITY INTEREST AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (237 ) 390 (627 ) MINORITY INTEREST (4 ) (3 ) (1 ) INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (241 ) 387 (628 ) CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES (net of income taxes) 108 13 95 NET INCOME (LOSS) $ (133 ) $ 400 $ (533 ) 339 Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased in 2003 as compared to 2002. Generations sales in 2003 and 2002 were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 4,036 $ 4,213 $ (177 ) (4.2 %) Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,861 2,490 1,371 55.1 % Total energy sales revenue 7,897 6,703 1,194 17.8 % Trading portfolio 1 (29 ) 30 (103.4 %) Other revenue 237 184 53 28.8 % Total revenue $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 1,277 18.6 % Sales (in GWhs) 2003 2002 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates (a) 117,405 123,975 (6,570 ) (5.3 %) Wholesale and retail electric sales 107,267 83,565 23,702 28.4 % Total sales 224,672 207,540 17,132 8.3 % (a) Includes sales to Exelon Energy Company. Trading volumes of 32,584 GWhs and 69,933 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2003, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric sales to affiliates. Sales to affiliates decreased primarily due to lower volume sales to ComEd, offset by slightly higher realized prices. Revenues from PECO were lower, primarily due to lower realized prices, partially offset by slightly higher volumes. Sales to Exelon Energy Company decreased primarily due to the discontinuance of Exelon Energy Company operations in the PJM region. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. Sales volume in the wholesale spot and bilateral markets increased primarily due to the acquisition of Exelon New England in November 2002 and the commencement of commercial operations in 2003 of the Boston Generating facilities, Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River. In addition, average market prices in 2003 were $5/MWh higher than in 2002. Trading Revenues. Trading margin increased, reflecting a $1 million gain for the year ended December 31, 2003 as compared to a $29 million loss in the same period in 2002. The increase was primarily related to an increase in gas prices in April 2002, which negatively affected Generations trading positions. Other Revenue. Revenues also increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, as a result of a $76 million increase in sales of excess fossil fuel. The excess fossil fuel is a result of generating plants in Texas and New England operating at less than projected levels. 340 Purchased Power and Fuel Generations supply of sales in 2003 and 2002, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2003 2002 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 117,502 115,854 1.4 % Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 82,860 78,710 5.3 % Fossil and hydroelectric generation 24,310 12,976 87.3 % Total supply 224,672 207,540 8.3 % (a) Excluding AmerGen. (b) Including purchase power agreements with AmerGen. Generations supply mix changed as a result of increased nuclear generation due to a lower number of refueling and unplanned outages during 2003 as compared to 2002, increased fossil generation due to the Exelon New England plants acquired in November 2002, including plants under construction which became operational in the second and third quarters of 2003 which accounted for an increase of 8,426 GWhs. Additionally, the change included additional purchased power of 3,320 GWhs from Exelon New England, a new PPA with AmerGen, which increased purchased power by 3,049 GWhs in the second quarter of 2003, and 11,989 GWhs of other miscellaneous power purchases, which more than offset a 14,208 GWhs reduction in purchased power from Midwest Generation. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to the same period in 2002 consisted of the following: Variance Exelon New England $ 429 Prices 350 Volume 46 Hedging activity 22 Other 20 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 867 Exelon New England. Generation acquired Exelon New England in November 2002 and Mystic Units 8 and 9 began commercial operations during the second quarter of 2003, while Fore River began commercial operations during the third quarter of 2003. Prices. The increase reflects higher market prices in 2003. Volume. Purchased power increased in 2003 due to an increase in purchased power from AmerGen under a June 2003 PPA to purchase 100% of the output of Oyster Creek. Prior to the June 2003 PPA, Generation did not purchase power from Oyster Creek. Fuel expense increased due to increases in fossil fuel generation required to meet the increased market demand for energy and the acquisition of generating plants in Texas in April 2002. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities were $16 million in 2003 compared to a gain of $6 million in 2002. Other. Other increases in purchased power and fuel were primarily due to additional nuclear fuel amortization of $16 million in 2003 resulting from under performing fuel which was completely replaced 341 in May 2003 at the Quad Cities Unit 1 and $10 million due to the write down of coal inventory in 2003 as a result of a fuel burn analysis. Generations average margins per MWh sold for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2003 2002 % Change Average revenue Wholesale sales to affiliates (a) $ 34.38 $ 33.98 1.2 % Wholesale electric sales 35.99 29.80 20.8 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 35.15 32.30 8.8 % Average supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (b) 22.79 20.49 11.2 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio 12.36 11.81 4.7 % (a) Includes sales to Exelon Energy Company. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs. Operating and Maintenance The changes in operating and maintenance expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 consisted of the following: Variance Adoption of SFAS No. 143 (a) $ 118 Increased costs due to generating asset acquisitions in 2002 78 Severance, pension and postretirement benefit costs associated with The Exelon Way 60 Increased employee fringe benefits primarily due to increased health care costs 54 Decreased refueling outage costs (b) (49 ) 2002 executive severance (19 ) Other (32 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 210 (a) Due to a reclassification of decommissioning related expenses upon the adoption of SFAS No. 143. (b) Includes cost savings of $19 million related to one of Generations co owned facilities. Refueling outage days, not including Generations co owned facilities, decreased from 202 in 2002 to 157 in 2003. The increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003, Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes) in the third quarter of 2003. The remaining increase is due to payroll related costs due to implementation of the programs associated with The Exelon Way, costs incurred due to generating asset acquisitions made in 2002, offset by lower refueling outage cost. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2003 as compared to 2002 was as follows: 2003 2002 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.4 % 92.7 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.53 $ 13.00 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 43.29 $ 41.85 (a) Including AmerGen and excluding Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. (b) Including PPAs with AmerGen. 342 The higher nuclear capacity factor and decreased production costs were primarily due to 56 fewer planned refueling outage days, resulting in a $36 million decrease in outage costs, including a $6 million decrease related to AmerGen, in 2003 as compared to 2002. The years ended 2003 and 2002 included 30 and 26 unplanned outages, respectively, resulting in a $2 million increase in non refueling outage costs in 2003 as compared to 2002. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating In connection with the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003, Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes). See Note 2 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Generations ownership interest in Boston Generating. Depreciation and Amortization The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily attributable to a $130 million reduction in decommissioning expense net of ARC depreciation, as these costs are included in operating and maintenance expense after the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and a $12 million decrease due to life extensions of assets acquired in 2002. The decrease was partially offset by $65 million of additional depreciation expense on capital additions placed in service in 2002, of which $18 million of expense is related to plant acquisitions made after the third quarter of 2002. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income decreased in 2003 compared to 2002 due primarily to a $20 million decrease in property taxes, a $13 million decrease in the Pennsylvania capital stock tax and the Texas franchise tax, and a $6 million decrease in payroll taxes. Interest Expense The increase in interest expense in 2003 as compared to 2002 is due to $18 million of higher interest related to the Boston Generating project debt outstanding in 2003 as well as the outstanding Sithe note. The increase was partially offset by a $14 million decrease resulting from interest expense no longer being recorded to offset decommissioning interest income in 2003. This offset is currently included as accretion expense in operating and maintenance expense. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2003 as compared to 2002 was due to a decrease of $21 million in the equity in earnings of Sithe, which was primarily the result of the sale of Sithe New Englands assets to Generation in November 2002. A decrease of $17 million in the equity in earnings of AmerGen also contributed to the overall decrease, which was primarily due to lower PPA revenues at AmerGen and increases in severance costs during 2003. Other, Net The decrease in other, net in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily a result of impairment charges related to Generations equity investment in Sithe due to an other than temporary decline in value of $255 million and a $25 million loss resulting from the purchase and subsequent sale of 50% of the assets of Sithe to Reservoir. See Note 3 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 343 Effective Income Tax Rate The effective income tax rate was 43.0% for 2003 compared to 35.7% for 2002. This increase was primarily attributable to the impairment charges recorded in 2003 related to the long lived assets of Boston Generating and Generations investment in Sithe, which resulted in a pre tax loss. Other adjustments that affected income taxes include a decrease in tax exempt interest in 2003 and an increase in nuclear decommissioning investment income for 2003. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On January 1, 2003, Generation adopted SFAS No. 143 resulting in a benefit of $108 million (net of income taxes of $70 million). On January 1, 2002, Generation adopted SFAS No. 142 resulting in a benefit of $13 million (net of income taxes of $9 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that Generation no longer has access to external financing sources at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility, which Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources, including cash, are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction expenditures, investments in new and existing ventures, repayments of maturing debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Any future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including Generations affiliated companies, as well as settlements arising from Generations trading activities. Generations future cash flow from operating activities will depend upon future demand and market prices for energy and the ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Cash flows from operations have been and are expected to continue to provide a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements for the foreseeable future. See Business Outlook and Challenges in Managing the Business. Cash flows provided by operations for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were $1,947 million and $1,453 million, respectively. Changes in Generations cash flows from operations are generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as further adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business and non cash charges. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations, Generations operating cash flows in 2004 were affected by the following items: Receivables from Energy Delivery under the PPAs increased $28 million for 2004, compared to a decrease of $177 million in 2003. The decrease in 2003 was primarily due to the payment of certain trade receivables from ComEd. 344 Net cash received for collateral for 2004 was $73 million, compared to $68 million paid in 2003. The year over year increase in cash flows of $141 million was primarily due to the reduction of cash collateral requirements for certain counterparties as a result of Generation negotiating the acceptance of letters of credit during 2004 to satisfy current and future collateral obligations. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, Generation had income tax receivables of $87 million and $290 million, respectively. In 2003, Generation established an income tax receivable primarily associated with special depreciation allowances, which was received in 2004, resulting in the primary change in cash in 2004 as compared to 2003 associated with income taxes. In December 2004, TXU and Generation terminated a tolling agreement and entered into a new agreement. Upon termination of the original agreement, Generation received a cash payment of $172 million. The resulting gain was deferred and will be recognized as income over the contractual term of the new agreement. See Note 2 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the transaction with TXU. Discretionary contributions to Exelons defined benefit pension plans were $180 million in 2004 compared to $145 million in 2003. Generations minimum funding requirement to satisfy ERISA for 2004 was $11 million. See Note 14 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding pension and postretirement benefits. Generation participates in Exelons defined benefit pension plans. Exelons plans currently meet the minimum funding requirements of ERISA; however, Exelon expects to make a discretionary pension plan contribution up to approximately $2 billion in 2005, of which $853 million is expected to be funded by Generation. Of the $853 million expected to be contributed to the pension plan during 2005, $13 million is estimated to be needed to satisfy ERISA minimum funding requirements for the pension plan obligations. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,103 million in 2004, compared to $1,301 million in 2003. Capital expenditures, including investment in nuclear fuel, were $960 million and $861 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, and primarily represent additions to nuclear fuel and additions and upgrades to existing facilities. Capital expenditures for 2003 are stated net of proceeds from liquidated damages of $92 million received from Raytheon as a result of Raytheon not meeting the expected completion date and certain contractual performance criteria in connection with Raytheons construction of the Boston Generating facilities. In addition to the recurring investing activities presented on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, significant investing activities during 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Generation received cash proceeds of $42 million from the January 2004 sale of three gas turbines that were classified as assets held for sale at December 31, 2003. Generation received $24 million as a result of the transfer of Exelon Energy Company to Generation, effective January 1, 2004, and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R on March 31, 2004. See Notes 2 and 3 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the transfer of Exelon Energy and the consolidation of Sithe, respectively. Sithe collected a $20 million note receivable during 2004 related to the sale of certain businesses of Sithe during the fourth quarter of 2003 and the first quarter of 2004. 345 On November 25, 2003, Generation, Reservoir and Sithe completed a series of transactions resulting in Generation and Reservoir each indirectly owning a 50% interest in Sithe. Net cash proceeds from the series of transactions were $44 million. In addition, a note was received from EXRES SHC, Inc. for $92 million. See Notes 3 and 20 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this transaction and Generations sale of Sithe. In December 2003, Generation purchased the 50% interest in AmerGen held by British Energy plc for $240 million, net of cash acquired of $36 million. The acquisition was funded with cash provided by operations. Capital expenditures for 2005 are projected to be $1,073 million. Generation anticipates that nuclear refueling outages, including co owned facilities, will increase from ten in 2004 to eleven in 2005. Generations capital expenditures are expected to be funded by internally generated funds. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities were $739 million in 2004 compared to $52 million in 2003. The increase in cash flows used in financing activities was primarily a result of a $500 million issuance of unsecured notes in 2003, a net repayment of intercompany borrowings of $162 million during 2004, compared to a $87 million net increase in intercompany borrowings in 2003 and a $316 million increase in dividend distributions to Exelon during 2004 as compared to 2003. In 2004, Generation paid $27 million of a note payable to Sithe, compared to $446 million paid in 2003. At December 31, 2004, Generation had repaid $473 million of the note payable, resulting in a remaining balance of $63 million, which was paid upon the completion of a series of transactions that resulted in Generations exit from its investment in Sithe on January 31, 2005. See Note 20 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale of Sithe. In October 2004, Generation issued $157 million of pollution control notes, the proceeds of which were distributed to Exelon. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, Generation may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen its balance sheet. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility. A description of Exelons credit agreements, and Generations participation therein, is set forth above under Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facility in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2004, Generations capital structure consisted of 51% members equity, 5% notes payable and 44% long term debt. Long term debt includes $1.2 billion of senior unsecured notes and $819 million related to Sithe Energies, Inc. debt, representing 14% of capitalization. Generation Revolving Credit Facilities. On September 29, 2003, Generation closed on an $850 million revolving credit facility that replaced a $550 million revolving credit facility that had originally closed on June 13, 2003. Generation used the facility to make the first payment to Sithe relating to the $536 million note that was used to purchase Exelon New England. This note was restructured in June 2003 to provide for a payment of $210 million of the principal on June 16, 2003, payment of $236 million of the principal on the earlier of December 1, 2003 or upon a change of control of Generation and payment of the remaining principal on the earlier of December 1, 2005, upon reaching certain 346 Sithe liquidity requirements, or upon a change of control of Generation. Generation paid $27 million on the note to Sithe in 2004. Generation terminated the $850 million revolving credit facility on December 22, 2003. Intercompany Money Pool. A description of the intercompany money pool, and Generations participation therein, is set forth above under Credit Issues Intercompany Money Pool in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. For the year ended December 31, 2004, Generation paid $3 million in interest to the money pool and earned less than $1 million in interest from its contributions to the intercompany money pool. Security Ratings. A description of Generations security ratings is set forth above under Credit Issues Security Ratings in Exelon Corporation Liquidity and Capital Resources. Fund Transfer Restrictions. Under applicable law, Generation can only pay dividends from undistributed or current earnings. Generation is precluded from lending or extending credit or indemnity to Exelon. At December 31, 2004, Generation had undistributed earnings of $761 million. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment Due within Due 2010 and beyond (in millions) Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Long term debt $ 2,688 $ 44 $ 98 $ 120 $ 2,426 Intercompany money pool 283 283 Interest obligations related to long term debt (a, b) 1,955 159 306 286 1,204 Capital leases 50 3 5 4 38 Operating leases 723 45 87 80 511 Purchase power obligations 9,497 2,024 1,973 1,288 4,212 Fuel purchase agreements 3,639 639 985 616 1,399 Other purchase commitments (c) 230 66 75 57 32 Obligation to minority shareholders 49 3 5 5 36 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 13 13 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 878 878 Total contractual obligations $ 20,005 $ 3,279 $ 3,534 $ 2,456 $ 10,736 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2004 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2004. (b) Includes Sithe related interest payments of $71 million, $132 million, $115 million and $849 million for payments due in 2005, 2006 2007, 2008 2009, and 2010 and beyond, respectively. See Note 20 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of Generations investment in Sithe. (c) Commitments for services and materials. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about: Long term debt, see Note 11. Capital lease obligations, see Note 11. 347 Spent nuclear fuel obligation, see Note 13. Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement, see Note 14. Operating leases, see Note 16. Purchase power obligations, see Note 16. Obligation to minority shareholders, see Note 16. Intercompany money pool, see Note 18. Mystic Development LLC (Mystic) a former affiliate of Exelon New England has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, approximately $16 million is included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheet of Generation as of December 31, 2004 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, Generation was required to re measure its decommissioning liabilities at fair value and recorded an asset retirement obligation of $2.4 billion on January 1, 2003. Increases in the asset retirement obligation resulting from the passage of time, are recorded as operating and maintenance expense. Increases in the asset retirement obligation resulting from a remeasurement are recorded with a corresponding asset retirement cost, which is a component of property, plant and equipment. At December 31, 2004, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet was $4.0 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin in 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $5.3 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2004. See ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 16 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Generations commercial commitments as of December 31, 2004. Variable Interest Entities. As of December 31, 2004, Generation was a 50% owner of Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Generation consolidated Sithe, within the financial statements as of March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. See Note 3 and Note 20 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the consolidation and sale of Sithe. Other Generations cash flow hedges are affected by commodity prices. These hedge contracts primarily represent forward sales of Generations excess capacity that it expects to deliver. The majority of these contracts are expected to settle within the next three years. These contracts have specified credit limits pursuant to standardized contract terms and require that cash collateral be posted when the limits are 348 exceeded. When power prices increase relative to Generations forward sales prices, it can be subject to collateral calls if Generation exceeds its credit limits; however, when power prices return to previous levels or when Generation delivers the power under its forward contracts, the collateral would be returned to Generation with no impact on its results of operations. Generation will satisfy its margin call obligations with the use of working capital or drawing on its available letters of credit. Generation believes that it has sufficient capability to fund any collateral requirements that could be reasonably expected to occur. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business The U.S. electric generation, transmission and distribution industry is in the midst of a fundamental and, at this point, uncertain transition from a fully regulated industry offering bundled service to an industry with unbundled services, some of which are regulated and others of which are priced in competitive markets. Generation operates in a highly competitive environment that is capital intensive. A description of the business outlook and challenges in managing Generations business is set forth above under Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business Generation and General Business in Exelon Corporation Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. Further discussion of Generations liquidity position and capital resources and related challenges is included in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity prices. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 349 
 
