ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Generation for a further discussion of nuclear decommissioning. Zion, a two unit nuclear generation station, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Dresden Unit 1 have permanently ceased power generation. SNF at Zion and Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in on site storage pools and dry cask storage, respectively, until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All of Peach Bottom Unit 1s SNF has been moved off site. Generation has recorded a liability totaling $766 million at December 31, 2005, which represents the estimated cost of decommissioning Zion, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Dresden Unit 1 in current year dollars. Certain decommissioning costs are currently being incurred; however, the majority of decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after 2013, 2033 and 2031 for Zion, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Dresden Unit 1, respectively. Fossil and Hydroelectric Facilities Generation operates various fossil and hydroelectric facilities and maintains ownership interest in several other facilities such as LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2005, approximately 7% of Generations electric supply was generated from Generations owned fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generations electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by the FERC. The Muddy Run and Conowingo facilities have licenses that expire in September 2014. Generation is in the process of performing pre application analyses and anticipates filing a Notice of Intent to renew the licenses in 2009 pursuant to FERC regulations. Insurance. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. For its other types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to 20 Table of Contents the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. Long Term Contracts In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the long term contracts described below: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MWs) Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2011 1,108 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP Franklin, Georgia 2030 925 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Green Country Energy, LLC Jenks, Oklahoma 2022 795 Elwood Energy, LLC Elwood, Illinois 2012 772 Lincoln Generating Facility, LLC Manhattan, Illinois 2011 664 Reliant Energy Aurora, LP Aurora, Illinois 2008 600 Others (a) Various 2006 to 2023 2,497 Total 8,191 (a) Includes long term capacity contracts with nine counterparties. Federal Power Act The Federal Power Act gives the FERC exclusive rate making jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, all public utilities subject to the FERCs jurisdiction are required to file rate schedules with the FERC with respect to wholesale sales and transmission of electricity. Transmission tariffs established under FERC regulation give Generation access to transmission lines that enable it to participate in competitive wholesale markets. Because Generation sells power in the wholesale markets, Generation is a public utility for purposes of the Federal Power Act and is required to obtain the FERCs acceptance of the rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. In 2000, Generation received authorization from the FERC to sell power at market based rates. As is customary with market based rate schedules, the FERC reserved the right to suspend market based rate authority on a retroactive basis if it subsequently determined that Generation or any of its affiliates violated the terms and conditions of its tariff or the Federal Power Act. The FERC is also authorized to order refunds if it finds that the market based rates are not just and reasonable under the Federal Power Act. For a number of years, the FERC has been encouraging the voluntary formation of RTOs, such as PJM, to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. The intended benefits of establishing these entities include managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, and the elimination or reduction of transmission charges imposed by successive transmission systems when wholesale generators cross several transmission systems to deliver capacity. To date, PJM, the Midwest ISO, and ISO New England, have been approved as RTOs. Because of some states opposition to imposition of centralized energy and capacity markets, the new FERC Chairman has been seeking to enhance the independence of transmission operations without the overlay of centralized markets. 21 Table of Contents Exelon supports the development of RTOs and implementation of standard market protocols but cannot predict their success or whether they will lead to the development of the envisioned large, successful wholesale markets. The FERC issued a final rule establishing standardized generator interconnection policies and procedures. Under this interconnection policy generators will benefit from not having to deal on a case by case basis with different and sometimes inconsistent requirements of different transmission providers. In 2004, the FERC implemented market power tests for suppliers to qualify to sell power at market based rates. These new tests, the market share test and the pivotal supplier test, must both be passed by Generation, or market power mitigation must be imposed for Generation to continue to make sales of capacity and energy in the wholesale market at market based rates. The FERC allows the relevant geographic market to include a RTOs footprint, and Generation used an expanded PJM footprint as the relevant market. On July 5, 2005, the FERC approved Generations continued authority to charge market based rates for wholesale sales of electricity, including to its affiliates ComEd and PECO. In the same order, the FERC stated that Generation had failed to address the affiliate abuse prong of the FERCs market based rate eligibility test and used that statement as the basis for instituting a proceeding under the provision of the Federal Power Act, Section 206 and establishing a refund effective date of July 26, 2005 in the event that the FERC ultimately found that Generation did not, in fact, qualify for market based rates. The FERC ordered Generation to make a compliance filing within 30 days of the order addressing the affiliate abuse and reciprocal dealing prong of the market based rate test. On August 4, 2005, Generation filed a Petition for Rehearing asking the FERC to rescind the part of its market based rate order that had opened a Section 206 investigation into the issue of affiliate abuse and had established a refund effective date. Generation had addressed the affiliate abuse issue in its original November 2003 triennial update filing. The September 2004 filing had addressed only the new generation market power issue, as the FERC had directed. In the August 2005 filing, Generation noted the original reference in the September 2004 filing to the fact that the FERC had previously found that circumstances existed that guarded against affiliate abuse. Generation further noted that as of both the September 2004 and August 2005 filings there had been no change in the circumstances cited in the FERCs original order granting authority to Generation to sell electricity at market based rates. Generations pleading asked the FERC to either grant the rehearing request or to consider the August filing to be the required compliance filing. The July 2005 market based rate order also directed Exelon to make compliance filings within 30 days of the order amending the market based rate tariffs of Exelons various subsidiaries to include prohibiting sales of electricity to Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEGs regulated utility, unless specific authority were sought for such sales under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. These compliance filings were made in accordance with the Order. The Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act, which was signed into law on August 8, 2005, implements several significant changes intended to improve electric reliability, promote investment in electric facilities, streamline electric regulation, improve wholesale competition, address problems identified in the western energy crisis and Enron collapse, promote fuel diversity and cleaner fuel sources, and promote greater efficiency in electric generation, delivery and use. The Energy Policy Act, through amendment of the Federal Power Act, also transfers to the FERC certain additional authority. The FERC obtains new authority to review the acquisition or merger of generating facilities, along with the responsibility to address more explicitly cross subsidization issues in these situations. The FERC now has the authority to approve siting of electric transmission facilities located in national interest electric transmission corridors if states cannot or will not act in a timely manner to approve siting. The Energy Policy Act also creates a self regulating electric reliability organization with the FERC oversight to enforce reliability rules. 22 Table of Contents Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in gigawatthours (GWhs) for 2005 and estimated for 2006: Source of Electric Supply 2005 2006 (Est.) Nuclear units 137,936 137,832 Purchases non trading portfolio 42,623 50,098 Fossil and hydroelectric units 13,778 13,891 Total supply 194,337 201,821 The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its commitment to supply the requirements of ComEd and PECO, some of Exelon Energys requirements, and for sales to other utilities. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2008. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2008. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2010. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2008. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services for its nuclear units. Generation obtains approximately 40% of its uranium enrichment services from European suppliers. There is an ongoing trade action by USEC, Inc. alleging dumping in the United States against European enrichment services suppliers. In January 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission determined that USEC, Inc. was materially injured or threatened with material injury by low enriched uranium exported by European suppliers. The U.S. Department of Commerce has assessed countervailing and anti dumping duties against the European suppliers. Both USEC, Inc. and the European suppliers have appealed these decisions. Generation is uncertain at this time as to the outcome of the pending appeals; however, as a result of these actions, Generation may incur higher costs for uranium enrichment services necessary for the production of nuclear fuel. Coal is obtained for coal fired plants primarily through annual contracts with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. Natural gas requirements for operating stations are procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. Power Team Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity, and long , intermediate and short term contracts. Generation seeks to 23 Table of Contents maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and purchase power and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. These agreements are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale energy market. Generation has also purchased transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs. Power Team also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is three years. Generations hedge ratio in 2006 for its energy marketing portfolio is approximately 88%. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand and volatility. During summer peak demand periods, the hedge ratio declines to assure Generations commitment to meet demand in ComEds and PECOs regions. For the portion of generation supply that is unhedged, fluctuations in market price of energy will cause volatility in Generations results of operations. Power Team also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Power Teams efforts. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk management group and Exelons Risk Management Committee (RMC) monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. At December 31, 2005, Generations long term commitments relating to the purchase and sale of energy, capacity and transmission rights from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power OnlySales Power Only Purchasesfrom Non Affiliates Transmission RightsPurchases (b) 2006 $ 616 $ 2,783 $ 1,508 $ 7 2007 527 947 491 3 2008 460 80 194 2009 434 18 194 2010 436 19 194 Thereafter 3,391 355 Total $ 5,864 $ 3,847 $ 2,936 $ 10 (a) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2005. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are conditional on plant availability. (b) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments in 2006 for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA, as amended, with ComEd under which Generation has agreed to supply all of ComEds load requirements through 2006. Under the ComEd PPA, prices for energy vary depending upon the time of day and month of 24 Table of Contents delivery. Subsequent to 2006, ComEd expects to procure all of its supply from market sources, which could include Generation. Additionally, Generation has a PPA with PECO under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with substantially all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. PECO has also assigned its rights and obligations under various PPAs and fuel supply agreements to Generation. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from the transferred generation assets, assigned PPAs and other market sources. Subsequent to 2010, PECO expects to procure all of its electricity from market sources, which could include Generation. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2006 are as follows: (in millions) Production plant $ 604 Nuclear fuel 511 Total $ 1,115 Employees As of December 31, 2005, Exelon and its subsidiaries had approximately 17,200 employees in the following companies: ComEd 5,500 PECO 2,000 Generation 7,700 Other (a) 2,000 Total 17,200 (a) Other includes shared services and Enterprises employees. Approximately 5,400 employees, including 3,800 employees of ComEd, 1,600 employees of Generation and 100 employees of Exelon Business Services Company (BSC), are covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) with Local 15 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW Local 15). AmerGen has separate CBAs for each of its nuclear facilities, which cover an aggregate of approximately 700 employees. The Generation CBA with IBEW Local 15 has been extended to September 30, 2007. The CBA for ComEd and BSC expires on September 30, 2008. The Clinton, Oyster Creek and TMI CBAs expire on December 15, 2010, January 31, 2010 and February 28, 2009, respectively. Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with Utility Workers of America (UWA) Local 369, which expires on January 31, 2007 and covers approximately 50 employees. In addition, Exelon Power has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on January 31, 2008 and covers approximately 200 employees. In addition to IBEW Local 15, IBEW Local 614 and the four IBEW locals covering the AmerGen facilities, approximately 40 Generation employees are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America. During 2004, two elections were held at PECO which resulted in union representation for approximately 1,100 employees in the Philadelphia service territory. PECO and IBEW Local 614 began negotiations for an initial agreement in 2005. No agreement has been finalized to date. 25 Table of Contents The employees of the Limerick and Peach Bottom nuclear stations are not represented by a union. On May 5, 2005, a majority of these employees elected not to be represented by the IBEW 614. The union has contested the election, which is currently under review by the National Labor Relations Board. Environmental Regulation General Specific operations of Exelon, primarily those of ComEd, PECO and Generation, are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by various states and local jurisdictions where Exelon operates its facilities. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. The Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the State of Illinois, together with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, which enforces regulations of the IPCB and issues permits in connection with environmental control. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PDEP) has jurisdiction over environmental control in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has jurisdiction in Texas, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction in New Jersey and the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction in Massachusetts. State regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated. Those permits must be renewed periodically. Generation either has NPDES permits for all of its generating stations or has pending applications for renewals of such permits while operating under an administrative extension. In July 2004, the EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. This rule establishes national requirements for reducing the adverse environmental impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing power plants. The rule identifies particular standards of performance with respect to entrainment and impingement and requires each facility to monitor and validate this performance in future years. The requirements will be implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. All of Generations power generation facilities with cooling water systems are subject to the regulations. Facilities without closed cycle recirculating systems (e.g. cooling towers) are potentially most affected. Those facilities are Clinton, Cromby, Dresden, Eddystone, Fairless Hills, Handley, Mountain Creek, New Boston, Oyster Creek, Peach Bottom, Quad Cities and Salem. Generation is currently evaluating compliance options at its affected plants. At this time, Generation cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the Phase II rule requirements will have on the operation of its generating facilities and its future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There are many factors to be considered and evaluated to determine how Generation will comply with the Phase II rule requirements and the extent to which such compliance may result in financial and operational impacts. The considerations and evaluations include, but are not limited to obtaining clarifying interpretations of the requirements from state regulators, resolving outstanding litigation proceedings concerning the requirements, completing studies to establish biological baselines for each facility, and performing environmental and economic cost benefit evaluations of the potential compliance alternatives in accordance with the requirements. In a pre draft permit dated May 13, 2005 and a draft permit issued on July 19, 2005, as part of the pending NPDES permit renewal process for Oyster Creek, the NJDEP preliminarily determined that closed cycle cooling and environmental restoration are the only viable compliance options for 26 Table of Contents Section 316(b) compliance at Oyster Creek. AmerGen has not made a determination regarding how it will demonstrate compliance with the Section 316(b) regulations, but believes that other compliance options under the final Phase II rule are viable and will be analyzed as part of the plants comprehensive demonstration study. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations requires the retrofitting of Oyster Creeks cooling water intake structure or system, or extensive wetlands restoration, this could result in material costs of compliance and increased depreciation expense. In addition, the amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to renew the operating license. In June 2001, the NJDEP issued a renewed NDPES permit for Salem, expiring in July 2006, allowing for the continued operation of Salem with its existing cooling water system. NJDEP advised PSEG in a letter dated July 12, 2004 that it strongly recommended reducing cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed cycle cooling as a compliance option for Salem. PSEG submitted an application for a renewal of the permit on February 1, 2006. In the permit renewal application, PSEG analyzed closed cycle cooling and other options and demonstrated that the continuation of the Estuary Enhancement Program, an extensive environmental restoration program at Salem, is the best technology to meet the Section 316(b) requirements. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations ultimately requires the retrofitting of Salems cooling water intake structure to reduce cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed cycle cooling, Exelons share of the total cost of the retrofit and any resulting interim replacement power would likely be in excess of $500 million and could result in increased depreciation expense related to the retrofit investment. On December 16, 2005, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (Illinois EPA) issued a Violation Notice to Generation alleging that the company had violated state groundwater standards as a result of historical discharges of liquid tritium from a line at the Braidwood Nuclear Generating Station. In November 2005, Generation discovered that spills from the line in 1998 and 2000 have resulted in a tritium plume in groundwater that is both on and off the plant site. Levels of tritium in portions of the plume are in excess of the Illinois EPA groundwater standard. Levels in portions of the plume also exceed the Illinois EPA and Federal limits for drinking water. However, samples from drinking water wells on property adjacent to the plant have shown that, with one exception, tritium levels in these wells are below levels that naturally occur. The tritium level in one drinking water well is elevated above levels that naturally occur, but is significantly below the state and federal drinking water standards, and Generation believes that this level poses no threat to human health. Generation has suspended liquid tritium discharges into the affected pipeline, and is investigating the causes of the releases to ensure that necessary corrective actions are taken to prevent another occurrence. Generation has analyzed the various remediation options for the groundwater, and submitted an initial report to the Illinois EPA on February 2, 2006. The Illinois EPA will determine the required remediation and whether a civil penalty will be assessed against Generation. Generation has notified 14 potentially affected adjacent property owners that, upon sale of their property, it will reimburse them for any diminution in property value caused by the release, and has purchased the property of one adjacent owner. As of December 31, 2005, Generation, recorded a reserve of $7 million (pre tax) for this matter, which Generation deems adequate to cover the costs of remediation and potential related corrective measures. Also, as a result of intensified monitoring and inspection efforts in 2006, Exelon detected a small underground tritium leak at the Dresden Generating Station and tritium concentrations in standing water within concrete vaults at the Byron Generating Station. Neither of these discharges occurred outside the property lines of the plant, nor does Exelon believe either of these matters poses health or safety threats to employees or to the public. In response to the detection of tritium in water samples taken at the aforementioned nuclear generating stations, Exelon has launched an initiative across its ten station nuclear fleet to systematically assess systems that handle tritium and take the necessary actions to minimize the risk of inadvertent discharge of tritium to the environment. The assessments 27 Table of Contents will take place in 2006 and will cover pipes, pumps, valves, tanks and other pieces of equipment that carry tritiated water in and around the plants. At this time, Exelon cannot estimate the costs that may be incurred in connection with tritium assessment initiatives or possible remediation efforts of the Dresden and Byron matters. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and interstate agencies, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These potentially responsible parties (PRPs) can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. ComEd, PECO and Generation and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. By notice issued in November 1986, the EPA notified over 800 entities, including ComEd and PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to releases of radioactive and or toxic substances from the Maxey Flats disposal site, a LLRW disposal site near Moorehead, Kentucky, where ComEd and PECO disposed of low level radioactive wastes resulting from their nuclear generation activities, which are now the responsibility of Generation. A settlement was reached among the Federal and private PRPs, including ComEd and PECO, the Commonwealth of Kentucky (Kentucky) and the EPA concerning their respective roles and responsibilities in conducting remedial activities at the site. Under the settlement, which was incorporated into a Federal court Consent Decree, the private PRPs agreed to perform the initial remedial work at the site and Kentucky agreed to assume responsibility for long range maintenance and final remediation of the site. On October 5, 2003, the EPA issued a Certificate of Completion indicating that the private PRPs have completed their obligations under the Consent Decree. The site is being turned over to Kentucky as provided in the Consent Decree. The private PRPs, including Generation, will maintain oversight of Kentuckys activities to assure the stability of the site since the private PRPs have residual liability if there is a remedy failure over the next ten years. By notice issued in December 1987, the EPA notified several entities, including PECO, that they may be PRPs under CERCLA with respect to wastes resulting from the treatment and disposal of transformers and miscellaneous electrical equipment at a site located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (Metal Bank of America site). Several of the PRPs, including PECO, formed a steering committee to investigate the nature and extent of possible involvement in this matter. On May 29, 1991, a Consent Order was issued by the EPA pursuant to which the members of the steering committee agreed to perform the remedial investigation and feasibility study as described in the work plan issued with the Consent Order. PECOs share of the cost of the study was approximately 25%. On July 19, 1995, the EPA issued a proposed plan for remediation of the site, which involves removal of contaminated soil, 28 Table of Contents sediment and groundwater and which the EPA estimated would cost approximately $17 million to implement. On June 26, 1998, the EPA issued an order to the non de minimis PRP group members, and others, including the owner, to implement the remedial design and remedial action. The PRP group conducted the remedial design and submitted to the EPA the revised final design on January 15, 2003. A final settlement agreement has been reached between the EPA, the PRP group and the former owners and operators of the site. The final design estimates for the cost to implement the remedial action range from $14 million to $17 million. This amount does not include the PRP groups future legal and technical expenses, which are not expected to be material. The settlement amount also does not include any damages for natural resource damages that the EPA or state environmental agencies may seek to obtain in the future, and at this time PECO cannot predict with reasonable certainty the likelihood that such damages will be sought or the amount of any such damages. Based on the amounts already contributed by the PRP group, it is expected that payments from the former owners and operators of the site will be sufficient to pay for the remedial action. Should any additional payments be required from the PRP group, PECOs share would be 25%. The parties lodged the settlement with the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (the District Court). Prior to the dismissal of the litigation, the District Court must approve the settlement, after an opportunity for public comment. Following publication of a notice of the settlement and a public meeting on the settlement, the Delaware River Basin Commission, the PDEP, and the NJDEP filed petitions to intervene in the litigation. Following a conference with the judge, the proposed intervenors filed a motion with the District Court to withdraw their petitions to intervene. On January 26, 2006 the Court granted the motion and dismissed the petitions. It is expected that the District Court will approve the Consent Decrees, thereby settling the case. Cotter Corporation The EPA has advised Cotter Corporation (Cotter), a former ComEd subsidiary, that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. Cotter is alleged to have disposed of approximately 39,000 tons of soils mixed with 8,700 tons of leached barium sulfate at the site. Cotter, along with three other companies identified by the EPA as PRPs, has submitted a draft feasibility study addressing options for remediation of the site. The PRPs are also engaged in discussions with the State of Missouri and the EPA. The estimated costs of the anticipated remediation strategy for the site ranges up to $22 million. Once a remedy is selected, it is expected that the PRPs will agree on an allocation of responsibility for the costs. On February 18, 2000, ComEd sold Cotter to an unaffiliated third party. As part of the sale, ComEd agreed to indemnify Cotter for liability from the West Lake Landfill and the litigation described under ITEM 3. Litigation Generation. In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, the responsibility to indemnify Cotter for any liability related to these matters was transferred by ComEd to Generation. MGP Sites MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to 1950. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did, however, acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities. To date, ComEd has identified 42 former MGP sites for which it may be liable for remediation. Of these 42 sites, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency has approved the clean up of six sites. Similarly, PECO has identified 27 sites where former MGP activities may have resulted in site contamination. Of these 27 sites, the PDEP has approved the clean up of nine sites. With respect to these sites, ComEd and PECO are presently engaged in performing various levels of activities, including initial evaluation to determine the existence and nature of the contamination, detailed evaluation to determine the extent of the contamination and the necessity and possible methods of remediation, and implementation of remediation. ComEd and PECO are working closely with regulatory authorities in the various jurisdictions to develop and implement appropriate plans and schedules for evaluation, risk ranking, detailed study and remediation activities on an individual site and overall program basis. The status of each of the sites in the program varies and is reviewed periodically with the regulatory authorities. At December 31, 2005, ComEd and 29 Table of Contents PECO had accrued $48 million (discounted) and $41 million (discounted), respectively, for investigation and remediation of these MGP sites that currently can be reasonably estimated. ComEd and PECO believe that they could incur additional liabilities with respect to MGP sites, which cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. In 2005, PECO finalized settlement agreements with all of its insurers of PECOs claims for recovery of remediation costs associated with environmental remediation projects and received $14 million of insurance proceeds. In 2005, ComEd finalized a settlement agreement with its insurance carrier in the amount of approximately $4 million for costs associated with environmental remediation projects. Additionally, PECO is currently collecting through regulated gas rates, revenues to offset expenditures on MGP site remediation. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the EPA and the various state environmental agencies in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Illinois and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act (CAA) Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution. The Amendments include a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from power plants. Flue gas desulphurization systems (scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units other than the Keystone Station. Keystone is subject to, and in compliance with, the Phase II SO2 and NOx limits of the Amendments, which became effective January 1, 2000. Generation and the other Keystone co owners are purchasing SO2 emission allowances to comply with the Phase II limits. Generation has completed implementation of measures, including the installation of NOx emissions controls and the imposition of certain operational constraints, to comply with the Reasonably Available Control Technology limitations and state level ozone season (May to September) NOx reduction regulations. These state level regulations were developed by eastern states to reduce summertime NOx emissions pursuant to several Federal NOx reduction regulations (NOx SIP Call regulations) adopted by the EPA during 1998 and 1999 to address regional ozone transport. State level NOx reduction regulations took effect May 1, 2003 in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. Compliance in Illinois started May 31, 2004. Texas is not covered by the EPAs NOx SIP Call regulations. The EPAs NOx SIP Call regulations currently require 19 eastern states to reduce summertime NOx emissions. Generation has evaluated options for compliance with the NOx SIP Call regulations and installed controls on the two coal fired units at the Eddystone Generating Station (Selective Non Catalytic Reduction) and installed controls on the two coal fired units (Selective Catalytic Reduction) at the Keystone Generating Station. Generations NOx compliance program is supplemented with the purchase of additional NOx allowances on an as needed basis. The eight new peaking units commissioned during 2002 at the Southeast Chicago Generating Station are equipped with NOx controls that meet requirements for new sources. The Handley and Mountain Creek stations in the Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) area are required to comply with the DFW NOx State Implementation Plan (SIP) that commenced on May 1, 2003, and that was fully implemented on May 1, 2005. Additionally, beginning May 1, 2003, these plants were required to comply with the Emission Banking and Trading of Allowances (EBTA) program established by the State of Texas for the purpose of achieving substantial reductions in NOx from grandfathered electric generating facilities. To comply with both the DFW NOx SIP and EBTA program, Generation, installed Selective Catalytic Reduction technology on Handley Units 3, 4 and 5, as well as Mountain Creek Unit 8. Additionally, Induced Flue Gas Recirculation Technology was installed on Mountain Creek Units 6 and 7. During March 2005, the EPA finalized several new rulemakings designed to reduce powerplant emissions of SO2, NOx and mercury. In its Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), the EPA established new 30 Table of Contents annual (applicable in 23 eastern states) and ozone season (applicable in 25 eastern states) NOx emission caps that are scheduled to take effect in 2009. Further, CAIR requires an additional reduction of SO2 emissions in 23 eastern states starting in 2010. CAIR also requires an additional reduction of NOx and SO2 emissions in 2015. The new SO2 and NOx emission caps finalized by the EPA are substantially below current industry emission levels. In a separate rulemaking also issued in March 2005, the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), the EPA also finalized a national program to cap mercury emissions from coal fired generating units starting in 2010, with a second reduction in the mercury emission cap level scheduled for 2018. In its final CAMR, the EPA determined that it would not regulate nickel emissions from oil fired power plants, as it had considered in its proposed rulemaking. Generation is currently evaluating its compliance options with regard to the final CAIR and CAMR regulations. Final compliance decisions will be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the final form of state implementing regulations that are currently under development, as well as the resolution of legal challenges initiated by certain parties (not including Exelon) in the Federal courts regarding the final CAIR and CAMR regulations. Legal challenges to a related final rulemaking, also published in March 2005, in which the EPA rescinded its December 2000 regulatory finding on hazardous air pollutants from electric utility steam generating units, may also have an effect on Generations final compliance decisions to the extent such litigation has an effect on the CAMR. During late 2005, the EPA also agreed to reconsider and take additional public comment regarding certain aspects of its final CAIR and CAMR rulemakings. The EPA will consider these comments in early 2006. Finally, a number of states in which Generation operates are considering establishing state and or regional requirements for NOx, SO2 and mercury emissions that could require larger emission reductions, on shorter time schedules, than are required by the EPAs CAMR and CAIR. For example, the PDEP has initiated a state specific mercury rulemaking process that may result in a Pennsylvania mercury regulation that exceeds the requirements of CAMR. Pennsylvania is also participating with other Ozone Transport Commission (OTC) states in the northeast, in the development of a CAIR Plus program for the northeast states that could require NOx, SO2 and mercury reductions in excess of the EPAs requirements. In addition to Federal and state regulatory activities, several legislative proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including generating plants, have been proposed in the United States Congress. For example, several multi pollutant bills have been introduced that would reduce generating plant emissions of NOx, SO2, mercury and carbon dioxide starting late this decade and into the next decade. At this time, Exelon can provide no assurance that new legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, will not have a significant effect on Generations operations and cash flows. Global Climate Change The United States is currently not a party to the United Nations Kyoto Protocol (Protocol) that became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at certain levels during the 2008 2012 time period. Although it is not a signatory to the Protocol, the United States may adopt a national, mandatory GHG program at some point in the future. In addition, on August 24, 2005, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a cooperative effort by Northeastern and Mid Atlantic states to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, one of the greenhouse gases, released a program proposal. Central to this proposal is the implementation of a multi state cap and trade program with a market based emissions trading system. The proposed program would apply to electric power generators of 25MW or greater in the participating states. On December 20, 2005, seven of the nine RGGI states signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) under which they committed to develop a detailed model rule during 2006 to be used by individual states to adopt the RGGI requirements outlined in the MOU. The RGGI MOU is an agreement to stabilize aggregate carbon dioxide emissions from power plants in participating states at current levels from 2009 to 2015. Further, a 10 percent reduction from current levels would be required to be phased in starting in 2016 such that by 2019 31 Table of Contents there would be a 10 percent reduction in participating state power plant emissions. States participating in the RGGI MOU include Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York and Vermont. Maryland and Pennsylvania have been observers of the process. Generation owns a small amount of peaking and intermediate generating capacity in the RGGI region. At this time, Exelon is unable to predict the potential impacts of any future mandatory governmental GHG legislative or regulatory requirements on its businesses. In the absence of a mandatory national program, Exelon has joined the U.S. EPA Climate Leaders Partnership (Climate Leader). As a Climate Leader partner, Exelon is conducting an annual inventory of its GHG emissions and annually reporting its GHG emissions and progress toward achieving GHG reductions. In addition, on May 6, 2005, Exelon announced that it has established a voluntary goal to reduce its GHG emissions by eight percent from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. The eight percent reduction goal represents a decrease of an estimated 1.3 million metric tons of GHG emissions. Exelon will incorporate recognition of GHG emissions and their potential cost into its business analyses as a means to promote internal investment in climate reducing activities. Exelon believes that its planned greenhouse gas management efforts, including increased use of renewable energy, its current energy efficiency initiatives and its efforts in the areas of carbon sequestration, will allow it to achieve this goal. The anticipated cost of achieving the voluntary GHG emissions reduction goal will not have a material effect on Exelons future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As an integrated electric and gas utility, approximately 90% of Exelons GHG emissions result from Generations combustion of fossil fuels to generate electricity, with CO2 representing the largest quantity of GHG emitted. The majority of Generations owned generation is comprised of nuclear and hydroelectric assets that have negligible GHG emissions compared to fossil based electric generation alternatives. By virtue of Generations significant investment in these low carbon intensity assets, Generations owned generation portfolio CO2 emission intensity, or rate of CO2 emitted per kilowatt hour of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Approximately 26 states have adopted some form of renewable portfolio standard (RPS) legislation. On November 30, 2004, Pennsylvania adopted Act 213, the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act of 2004 (AEPS Act). The AEPS Act mandates that two years after its effective date (February 28, 2005) at least 1.5% of electric energy sold by an electric distribution company or electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers must come from Tier I alternative energy resources. The Tier I requirement escalates to 8.0% by the 15th year after the effective date of the AEPS Act. The AEPS Act also establishes a Tier II requirement of 4.2% for years one through four. This requirement grows to 10.0% by the 15th year. In March 2005, the PAPUC issued its first implementation order related to the AEPS. In this order, the PAPUC established a schedule for Tier I and Tier II resources with year one covering the period June 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. During year one, compliance with the Tier I and Tier II requirements begins on February 28, 2007. Tier I resources include: solar photovoltaic energy, wind power, low impact hydro, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy and coal mine methane. A small percentage of the Tier I requirements must be met specifically by solar photovoltaic technologies (starting at 0.0013% in year 1 and escalating to 0.25% by year 10). Tier II resources include: waste coal, distributed generation systems, demand side management, large scale hydropower, municipal solid waste and several other technologies. The AEPS Act provides an exemption for electric distribution companies that have not reached the end of their cost recovery period during which competitive transition charges or intangible transition charges are being recovered. At the conclusion of the electric distribution companys cost recovery period, this exemption no longer applies and compliance by the electric distribution company is 32 Table of Contents required at the percentages in effect at that time. PECOs cost recovery period expires December 31, 2010. In the first year after the end of an electric distribution companys cost recovery period, the AEPS Act provides for cost recovery on a full and current basis pursuant to an automatic energy adjustment charge as a cost of generation supply. The banking of credits from voluntary sales of Tier I and Tier II sources sold by electric distribution companies prior to the expiration of their specific cost recovery periods is also allowed under the AEPS Act. Voluntary sales under the AEPS Act are deferred as a regulatory asset by the electric distribution company and are fully recoverable at the end of the cost recovery period, also pursuant to an automatic energy adjustment clause as a cost of generation supply. While Generation is not directly affected by the AEPS Act from a compliance perspective, increased deployment of renewable and alternative energy resources within the regional power pool resulting from the AEPS Act will have some influence on regional energy markets. It is anticipated that, during 2006 and 2007, the PAPUC will promulgate regulations or policy statements concerning the registration, banking, and cost recovery associated with alternative energy generation and associated credits. Once these regulations and the aforementioned regulations being promulgated for PECOs POLR role become effective, PECO will determine whether those regulations present any risk for PECOs recovery of purchase power costs associated with alternative energy and other POLR power purchases post 2010. During 2005, the Governor of Illinois proposed a voluntary Sustainable Energy Plan, which was subsequently endorsed by the ICC. Under the terms of the Plan, that includes both renewable and efficiency/demand response components, retail suppliers, including ComEd, would obtain renewable energy products equivalent to 2% of the energy supplied to customers in 2007, increasing by 1% annually to an ultimate target of 8% by 2013, with 75% of the targeted amounts to come from wind sources. ComEds response to this program will be made as part of its overall post 2006 strategy. Resolution of several outstanding legal and regulatory issues with respect to post transition procurement and cost recovery is required. See Retail Electric Services ComEd above for further detail on these outstanding legal and regulatory issues. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may determine to adopt such legislation in the future. Exelon is currently evaluating the potential impacts of RPS legislation on its businesses. Costs of Environmental Remediation At December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued $128 million, $54 million, $47 million and $27 million, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation. These costs include approximately $48 million at ComEd and $41 million at PECO for former MGP sites as described above. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation cannot currently predict whether they will incur other significant liabilities for additional investigation and remediation costs at sites presently identified or additional sites which may be identified by Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, environmental agencies or others, or whether all such costs will be recoverable through rates or from third parties. The budgets for expenditures in 2006 at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation for compliance with environmental requirements total approximately $16 million, $6 million, $7 million and $3 million, respectively. In addition, ComEd, PECO and Generation may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. 33 Table of Contents Security Exelon does not fully know the impact that future terrorist attacks may have on the electric and gas industry in general and on Exelon in particular. Exelon has implemented security measures to safeguard its employees and critical operations and is actively participating in industry initiatives to identify methods to maintain the reliability of Exelons energy production and delivery systems. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental agencies to coordinate emergency plans and to address vulnerabilities of critical infrastructures to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. These measures have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in increased costs, but will provide increased assurances for Exelons ability to maintain critical operations. Generation has met or exceeded all security measures mandated by the NRC for nuclear plants. On a continuing basis, Exelon is evaluating enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response, and recovery plans and assessing long term design changes and redundancy measures. Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities ComEd Transitional Funding Trust (ComEd Funding Trust), a Delaware statutory trust, was formed on October 28, 1998, pursuant to a trust agreement among First Union Trust Company, National Association, now U.S. Bank Trust, National Association, as Delaware trustee, and two individual trustees appointed by ComEd. ComEd Funding LLC, a special purpose Delaware limited liability company, was organized on July 21, 1998. ComEd Funding Trust was created for the sole purpose of issuing transitional funding notes to securitize intangible transition property granted to ComEd Funding LLC, a ComEd affiliate, by an ICC order issued July 21, 1998. On December 16, 1998, ComEd Funding Trust issued $3.4 billion of transitional funding notes, the proceeds of which were used to purchase the intangible transition property held by ComEd Funding LLC. ComEd Funding LLC transferred the proceeds to ComEd where they were used, among other things, to repurchase outstanding debt and equity securities of ComEd. The transitional funding notes are solely obligations of ComEd Funding Trust and are secured by the intangible transition property, which represents the right to receive instrument funding charges collected from ComEds customers. The instrument funding charges represent a non bypassable, usage based, per kWh charge on designated consumers of electricity. ComEd Financing Trust II, a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by ComEd on November 20, 1996. ComEd Financing Trust II was created solely for the purpose of issuing and selling preferred and common securities. On January 24, 1997, ComEd Financing Trust II issued $150 million of trust preferred securities, carrying an annual distribution rate of 8.50%, which are mandatorily redeemable on January 15, 2027. ComEd is the sole owner of all of the common securities of ComEd Financing Trust II. The sole assets of ComEd Financing Trust II are $155 million principal amount of 8.50% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due January 15, 2027, issued by ComEd. ComEd Financing Trust III, a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by ComEd on September 5, 2002. ComEd Financing Trust III was created for the sole purpose of issuing and selling preferred and common securities. On March 17, 2003, ComEd Financing Trust III issued $200 million of trust preferred securities, carrying an annual distribution rate of 6.35%, which are mandatorily redeemable on March 15, 2033. ComEd is the sole owner of all of the common securities of ComEd Financing Trust III. The sole assets of ComEd Financing III are $206 million principal amount of 6.35% subordinated deferrable interest debentures due March 15, 2033, issued by ComEd. PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), a Delaware statutory trust wholly owned by PECO, was formed on June 23, 1998 pursuant to a trust agreement among PECO, as grantor, First Union Trust Company, National Association, now US Bank Trust, National Association, as issuer trustee, and two 34 Table of Contents beneficiary trustees appointed by PECO. PETT was created for the sole purpose of issuing transition bonds to securitize a portion of PECOs authorized stranded cost recovery. On March 25, 1999, PETT issued $4 billion of its Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. On May 2, 2000, PETT issued $1 billion of its Series 2000 A Transition Bonds and on March 1, 2001, PETT issued $805 million of its Series 2001 A Transition Bonds to refinance a portion of the Series 1999 A Transition Bonds. The transition bonds are solely obligations of PETT secured by intangible transition property, representing the right to collect from customers transition charges sufficient to pay the principal and interest on the transition bonds. PECO Energy Capital Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of PECO (PECC), is the sole general partner of PECO Energy Capital, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (PEC L.P.). PEC L.P. was created solely for the purpose of issuing preferred securities, representing limited partnership interests and lending the proceeds thereof to PECO and entering into similar financing arrangements. The loans to PECO are evidenced by PECOs deferrable interest subordinated debentures (Subordinated Debentures), which are the only assets of PEC L.P. The only revenues of PEC L.P. are interest on the Subordinated Debentures. All of the operating expenses of PEC L.P. are paid by PECC. As of December 31, 2005, PEC L.P. held $81 million aggregate principal amount of the Subordinated Debentures. PECO Energy Capital Trust III (PECO Trust III), a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by PECO in April 1998. PECO Trust III was created solely for the purpose of issuing $78 million trust receipts (Trust III Receipts) each representing a 7.38% Cumulative Preferred Security, Series D (Series D Preferred Securities) of PEC L.P. PEC L.P. is the sponsor of PECO Trust III. As of December 31, 2005, PECO Trust III had outstanding 78,105 Trust III Receipts. At December 31, 2005, the assets of PECO Trust III consisted solely of 78,105 Series D Preferred Securities with an aggregate stated liquidation preference of $81 million. PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV), a Delaware statutory trust, was formed by PECO in May 2003. PECO Trust IV was created solely for the purpose of issuing and selling preferred and common securities. On June 17, 2003, PECO Trust IV issued $100 million of trust preferred securities, carrying an annual distribution rate of 5.75%, which are mandatorily redeemable on June 15, 2033. PECO is the sole owner of all of the common securities of the PECO Trust IV. The sole assets of PECO Trust IV are $103 million principal amount of 5.75% subordinated debentures issued by PECO. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Managing the Risks in the Business Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation have considered the business challenges facing them and have adopted certain risk management activities. The Registrants recognize that their risk management activities address only certain of the challenges facing the Registrants and that those activities may not be effective in all circumstances. A discussion of the risks to which the Registrants businesses are subject and the potential consequences of those risks are contained in ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate the challenges of their businesses and their ability to identify and mitigate these risks. ComEd and PECO Rate and equity return limitations. While ComEd and PECO continue to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve the reliability of each respective transmission and distribution system and to support new business and customer growth, ComEd and PECO also continue to work more efficiently to lower operating and maintenance costs. Exelon believes that ComEd, subject to the resolution of regulatory issues see Retail Electric Services above, and PECO will continue to provide a significant and steady source of earnings and cash flows over the next several years. 35 Table of Contents Post transition rates. In order to address post transition uncertainty, ComEd has made two different regulatory filings to establish the rates to be charged to customers effective January 2, 2007. The first filing relates to ComEds ability to procure electricity supply. The second filing established the delivery service rates that will be charged to customers. Through these proceedings ComEd is working with the ICC, consumer advocates and business community leadership to facilitate the development of a competitive electricity market while providing system reliability and safety. ComEd is promoting constructs that will move it towards transparent and liquid markets to allow for electricity procurement that will be deemed prudent, provide consumers assurance of equitable pricing and ensure adequate cost recoverability. On January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power by ComEd for the time period after 2006. The procurement process is similar to the process described in the Procurement Case with some modifications to enhance consumer protection. The auction will be administered by an independent auction manager, with oversight by the ICC staff. The first auction is scheduled to take place during the fall of 2006, at which time ComEds entire load will be up for bid. To mitigate the effects of changes in future prices, the load will be staggered in three year contracts. To further mitigate the impact on its residential customers of transitioning to this process, ComEd has offered to develop a cap and deferral proposal to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers, some or all of which could require regulatory or legislative approval to implement. A cap and deferral proposal, generally speaking, would limit the procurement costs that ComEd could pass through to its customers for a specified period of time and allow ComEd to collect any unrecovered procurement costs in later years. Several parties that were opposed to the Procurement Case have indicated that they will petition the ICC for rehearing and will challenge the ICC decision in court. ComEd also petitioned for rehearing of the ICC decision on certain issues, but that petition was denied by the ICC on February 8, 2006. It is also possible that interested parties could introduce legislation in Illinois in an attempt to modify the procurement process or the rates that ComEd may charge consumers for the power ComEd purchases to meet the needs of consumers. The Illinois General Assembly has held hearings concerning generation procurement after 2006, and it may take action on this issue. While PECO has made no regulatory filings to date to revise its transmission and distribution rates, PECO will continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. PECO will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements PECO has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. PECO will also work to ensure that its post 2010 rates are adequate to cover its costs of obtaining electricity from its suppliers, which could include Generation, for the costs associated with procuring full requirements power given PECOs POLR obligations. As in the past, by working together with interested parties, PECO believes it can successfully meet these objectives and obtain fair recovery of its costs for providing service to its customers after the transition periods. Power supply risks. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, ComEd and PECO have established full requirements, power supply agreements with Generation which reduce exposure to the volatility of customer demand and market prices through 2006 for ComEd and through 2010 for PECO. Market prices relative to ComEds and PECOs regulated rates still influence whether retail customers purchase electricity from ComEd, PECO or from an alternative electric supplier. Beyond 2006 for ComEd, assuming the auction process that was approved by the ICC for the procurement of electricity remains in effect, ComEd would be allowed to recover from customers the 36 Table of Contents cost of purchased electricity. Therefore, should an approved supplier default and ComEd be required to purchase replacement electricity, ComEd would be entitled to recover these costs from customers. Transmission congestion. ComEd and PECO have made, and expect to continue to make, significant capital expenditures to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of their transmission systems. On an ongoing basis, PJM, in cooperation with ComEd and PECO, performs screening analyses based on forecasts of future transmission system conditions in order to determine system reinforcements needed to maintain the reliable operation of both systems. Loss of electricity customers to other generation suppliers. When ComEds and PECOs respective customers choose alternative electric generation suppliers, ComEd and PECO lose their associated revenues. In the case of PECO, operating results are not affected by customers choosing an alternative supplier since lost revenues are completely offset by decreased purchased power expense. In ComEds case, the loss of revenues is largely offset by related reduced purchased power expense resulting in operating results being impacted only by any lost margin. With respect to planning for electricity supply, ComEd and PECO have no obligation to purchase power reserves to cover the load served by others. ComEd and PECO manage their POLR obligations through full requirements contracts with Generation, under which Generation supplies the electricity requirements of ComEd and PECO. Also, ComEd has sought through the regulatory process, as permitted by law, to limit the POLR obligation for those customers that do have competitive supply options. In 2003, ComEd received ICC approval to phase out over several years its obligation to provide fixed price electricity under bundled rates to approximately 370 of its largest electricity customers, which have demands of at least three MWs and represent an aggregate of approximately 2,500 MWs of load. To date, ComEd has not requested to phase out its obligation to provide fixed price electricity under bundled rates for other customers but continues to evaluate its options. Generation Costs to meet contractual commitments. Generations resources include interests in 11 nuclear generation stations, consisting of 19 units in operation. Generations nuclear fleet plus its ownership interest in the Salem Generating Station, operated by PSEG Nuclear, generated 137,936 GWhs, or approximately 90% of Generations total output, for the year ended December 31, 2005. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generations nuclear plants have historically benefited from stable fuel costs, minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history. Refueling outages. Generation continues to maintain the decreased average length of refueling outages achieved in recent years at the nuclear stations it operates, resulting in a stable generation base for Power Team trading activities. Operating services arrangement. In 2005, as a result of the OSC with PSEG Nuclear, Generation is providing services to oversee daily plant operations and guidance to implement the Exelon Nuclear Management Model at the Salem and Hope Creek nuclear generating stations. As a result, Generation has decreased certain exposures in 2005 and increased revenues from its share of the Salem Generating Station, which it co owns with PSEG Nuclear. Adequacy of funds to decommission nuclear power plants. In 2003, the GAO published a study on the NRCs need for more effective analyses to ensure the adequate accumulation of funds to decommission nuclear power plants in the United States. See the risk factor Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of 37 Table of Contents nuclear facilities for further detail. Generation has reviewed the GAOs report and believes that, in reaching its conclusions, the GAO did not consider all aspects of Generations decommissioning strategy, such as fund growth during the decommissioning period. The inclusion of estimated earnings growth on Generations nuclear trust funds during the decommissioning period virtually eliminates any funding shortfalls identified in the GAO report. Generation currently believes that the amounts in nuclear decommissioning trust funds and future collections from ComEds and PECOs customers, together with earnings thereon, will provide adequate funding to decommission its nuclear facilities in accordance with regulatory requirements. Credit risk. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. These policies include counterparty credit limits and, in some cases, require deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into enabling agreements that allow for netting of payables and receivables with the majority of its large counterparties. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. Due to the termination of its PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006 and its obligation to auction off output from its nuclear plants mandated by the FERC order approving the Merger, Generations liquidity requirements and credit risk exposure could increase. Extreme weather. Generation incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Wholesale energy market prices. The price of power purchased and sold in the open wholesale energy markets can vary significantly in response to market conditions. Generally, between 60% and 70% of Generations supply serves ComEd and PECO customers. Consequently, Generation has limited its earnings exposure from the volatility of the wholesale energy market to the energy generated in excess of the ComEd and PECO requirements, as well as any other contracted longer term obligations. Following the expiration of the PPA arrangement with ComEd at the end of 2006, Generations supply will be more exposed to energy market prices. Commodity prices. Generations Power Team manages the output of Generations assets and energy sales to optimize value and reduce the volatility of Generations earnings and cash flows. Generation attempts to manage its exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. General Business Security risk. The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. See Security in ITEM 1. Business for further detail. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans and assess long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. Potential phase out of tax credits. Tax credits generated by the production of synthetic fuel are subject to a phase out provision that gradually reduces tax credits in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. See the risk factor Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations in ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for further detail. In 2005, Exelon and 38 Table of Contents Generation entered into certain derivatives to economically hedge a portion of the oil price exposure related to the phase out of tax credits. These derivatives could result in after tax cash proceeds to Exelon of up to $42 million per year in 2006 and 2007 in the event the tax credits are completely phased out. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the Executive Overview in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for further detail. Interest rates. Exelon uses a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. Exelon also uses interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, Exelon uses forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for further information. Executive Officers of the Registrants at December 31, 2005 Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 60 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President Clark, Frank M. 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd McLean, Ian P. 56 Executive Vice President and President, Power Team Mehrberg, Randall E. 50 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Moler, Elizabeth A. 56 Executive Vice President, Governmental and Environmental Affairs and Public Policy Skolds, John L. 55 Executive Vice President, President, Exelon Energy Delivery and President, Exelon Generation Snodgrass, S. Gary 54 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Young, John F. 49 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets and Chief Financial Officer Hilzinger, Matthew F. 42 Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller ComEd Name Age Position Clark, Frank M. 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mitchell, J. Barry 57 President Costello, John T. 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer McDonald, Robert K. 50 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer Pramaggiore, Anne R. 47 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs Hooker, John T. 57 Senior Vice President, Legislative and Governmental Affairs Hilzinger, Matthew F. 42 Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon (Principal Accounting Officer) PECO Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 60 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon, and Director Young, John F. 49 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Chief Financial Officer Skolds, John L. 55 President, Exelon Energy Delivery, and Director OBrien, Denis P. 45 President and Director Hilzinger, Matthew F. 42 Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon (Principal Accounting Officer) 39 Table of Contents Generation Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 60 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon Young, John F. 49 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Chief Financial Officer Skolds, John L. 55 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and President McLean, Ian P. 56 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and President, Power Team Crane, Christopher M. 47 Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear Schiavoni, Mark A. 50 Senior Vice President and President, Exelon Power Veurink, Jon D. 41 Vice President and Controller Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective companys board of directors until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Rowe was President and Co Chief Executive of Exelon, Co Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and President, Co Chief Executive Officer of PECO; and Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and Unicom. Mr. Rowe was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Clark was Vice President and Chief of Staff of Exelon and President of ComEd; Senior Vice President, Distribution Customer and Marketing Services and External Affairs of ComEd; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd; Governmental Affairs Vice President; and Governmental Affairs Manager. Mr. Clark was elected Chairman of ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Senior Vice President of Exelon; President of the Power Team division of PECO; and Group Vice President of Engelhard Corporation. Mr. McLean was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mehrberg was Senior Vice President of Exelon; an equity partner with the law firm of Jenner & Block; and General Counsel and Lakefront Director of the Chicago Park District. Mr. Mehrberg was elected as an officer of Exelon effective December 3, 2001. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Moler was Senior Vice President, Government Affairs and Policy of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Director of Unicom and ComEd; Partner at the law firm of Vinson & Elkins, LLP; Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Energy; and Chair of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Ms. Moler was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Skolds was Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; and President and Chief Operating Officer of South Carolina Electric and Gas. Mr. Skolds was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Snodgrass was Chief Administrative Officer of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President of USG Corporation. Mr. Snodgrass was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Young was President of Exelon Generation; President of Exelon Power; Senior Vice President of Sierra Pacific Resources Corporation; President of Avalon Consulting; and Executive Vice President of Southern Generation. Mr. Young was elected as an officer effective March 3, 2003. 40 Table of Contents Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Credit Acceptance Corporation; Vice President, Controller of Kmart Corporation; Divisional Vice President, Strategic Planning and Financial Reporting of Kmart Corporation; and Assistant Treasurer of Kmart Corporation. Mr. Hilzinger was elected as an officer of Exelon effective April 15, 2002. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mitchell was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation; Vice President and Treasurer of Exelon; and Vice President, Treasury and Evaluation, and Treasurer of PECO. Mr. Mitchell was elected as President of ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Costello served as Senior Vice President of Exelon Energy Delivery Technical Services. Mr. Costello has also served as Senior Vice President of Exelon Energy Delivery Customer and Marketing Services; and Vice President, Customer Operations. Mr. Costello was elected to his listed position with ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McDonald served as Senior Vice President of Planning and Chief Risk Officer of Exelon. Mr. McDonald has also served as Chief Risk Officer of Exelon, Vice President of Planning of Exelon and Vice President of Risk Management of Exelon. He was elected to his listed position with ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Pramaggiore served as Vice President, Regulatory and Strategic Services of ComEd. She has also served as Lead Counsel of ComEd. Ms. Pramaggiore was elected to her listed position with ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hooker served as Senior Vice President, ComEd, Legislative and External Affairs and Exelon Energy Delivery Real Estate and Property Management. Mr. Hooker has also served as Vice President Exelon Energy Delivery Property Management and ComEd Legislative and External Affairs; Vice President Distribution Services and Public Affairs; and Vice President of Governmental Affairs. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. OBrien was Executive Vice President of PECO; Vice President of Operations of PECO; Director of Transmission and Substations of PECO; and Director of BucksMont Region of PECO. Mr. OBrien was elected as an officer of PECO effective January 1, 2001. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Crane was Vice President for Exelon Nuclear; and Vice President for BWR Operations of ComEd. Mr. Crane was elected as an officer of Generation effective December 27, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Schiavoni was Vice President of Operations; and Vice President of Northeast Operations of Exelon Power. Mr. Schiavoni was elected as an officer of Generation effective September 8, 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Veurink was a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Veurink was elected as an officer of Generation effective January 5, 2004. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation operate in a market environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond their control. The following risk factors, as well as the risks discussed in ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Exelon Liquidity and Capital Resources, may adversely impact the Registrants results of operations, 41 Table of Contents cash flows and market price of their publicly traded securities. While each of the Registrants believes it has identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect its performance or financial condition. ComEd and PECO Regulatory Risks The process for establishing ComEds and PECOs rates after the rate freeze and rate caps expire is contentious, in view of requested rate increase requests, and involves uncertainty as to their form and adequacy. ComEd and PECO cannot currently predict the ultimate outcomes of the actions by the Illinois and Pennsylvania state regulators for establishing rates after the rate freeze and caps expire. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR obligations, whereby each utility is required to provide electricity service to customers in its service area who choose to obtain their electricity from the utility. ComEd has filed two proceedings seeking regulatory approval of the process by which it proposes to procure electricity and the rates it proposes to charge to deliver electricity to customers. Various governmental parties and consumer groups have contested the proposed electricity procurement process as well as the requests made in the proceedings. The ultimate outcome of these matters, and in particular the ComEd Procurement case in Illinois and regulatory proceedings related to the end of PECOs transition period, will have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. ComEd may be required to sell electricity at capped rates while buying electricity at market rates, which are more volatile and potentially higher. Although the ICC has issued an order authorizing the reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power after 2006, that decision remains subject to petitions for rehearing and is likely to be challenged in court. ComEd cannot predict the results of those challenges or whether the Illinois General Assembly might take action that could have a material impact on the procurement process. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell electricity beginning in 2007 is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there may be material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. Exelon and ComEd believe that these potential material adverse consequences could include, but may not be limited to, loss of ComEds investment grade credit rating and a possible reduction in the other Registrants credit ratings, limited or lost access for ComEd to credit markets to finance operations and capital investment, and loss of ComEds capacity to enter into bilateral long term electricity procurement contracts, which would likely force ComEd to procure electricity at more volatile and potentially higher prices in the spot market. Moreover, to the extent ComEd is not permitted to recover its costs, ComEds ability to maintain and improve service may be diminished and its ability to maintain reliability may be impaired. In the nearer term, these prospects could have adverse effects on ComEds liquidity if vendors reduce credit or shorten payment terms or if ComEds financing alternatives become more limited and significantly less flexible. In addition, ComEd has indicated it is willing to develop a cap and deferral arrangement to keep residential rates at or below 1996 levels through 2009. A cap and deferral arrangement would limit the procurement costs that ComEd could pass through to its customers for a period of time and allow ComEd to collect those unrecovered costs in future years. 42 Table of Contents Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings that are contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which introduce time delays in effecting rate changes as well as uncertainty as to the ultimate result. ComEd and PECO are involved in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have long time lines, which may not be limited by statute. Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. ComEds and PECOs ability to cover their respective operating and capital costs may be limited by rate caps currently in effect, which will affect their respective results of operations during the rate cap period. The rate freezes or caps in effect at ComEd and PECO currently limit their ability to recover increased operating expenses and to recover the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. ComEd is subject to a rate freeze on bundled retail rates that will remain in effect through January 1, 2007. PECO is subject to rate caps on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 and on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. The transmission and distribution rate caps at PECO may be extended to December 31, 2010 as a result of a settlement in the Merger approval process in Pennsylvania. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. ComEd and PECO expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve the reliability of their transmission and distribution systems and for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. As a result, ComEds and PECOs future results of operations, during the periods indicated above, may be adversely affected if ComEd and PECO are not able to deliver electricity in a cost efficient manner and are unable to offset inflation and the cost of infrastructure investments with cost savings. Their ability to identify and implement cost savings is more challenging in the later years of the freeze and caps. Further, the rate freeze and caps will generally preclude rate recovery on any of its incremental capital investments through January 2, 2007. A mandatory RPS could negatively affect the cost of electricity purchased and sold by ComEd and PECO. Federal or state legislation mandating the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could result in significant changes in ComEds and PECOs businesses, including fuel cost and capital expenditures. ComEd and PECO continue to monitor discussions related to RPSs at the Federal and state levels. For additional information, see Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. Operating Risk ComEd and PECO may be subject to the risk of power supplier defaults and the unplanned costs associated with those defaults. Neither ComEd nor PECO own generation facilities. Both currently purchase their electricity from Generation pursuant to PPAs that expire at the end of 2006, in the case of ComEd, and the end of 2010, in the case of PECO. Assuming a competitive procurement process thereafter, both companies 43 Table of Contents may be subject to supplier defaults and supply risk. If a supplier defaults, ComEd or PECO, as the case may be, would be required to purchase replacement electricity in the spot market to meet the needs of its customers, which may increase electricity purchase and transmission costs and negatively affect results of operations. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or the FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission system through additional capital expenditures. ComEds and PECOs operating costs and their respective perception by customers and regulators are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the delivery of electricity and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. ComEd and PECO face the continued loss of electricity customers and associated revenues to other generation suppliers since those customers have the right to select their own generation supplier. ComEds and PECOs retail electric customers may purchase their electricity from alternative electric suppliers, although ComEd and PECO remain obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to customers in their service territories regardless of their generation supplier. ComEd and PECO are each generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in their service territories at fixed rates or, in some instances, market derived rates. In addition, customers who take service from an alternative supplier may later return to ComEd or PECO. The number of customers taking service from alternative electric suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that ComEd and PECO are authorized to charge by their state regulatory commissions. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different electric supplier, ComEds and PECOs revenues are likely to decline, and revenues and gross margins could vary from period to period. The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers may decrease PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Gas rates charged to customers are comprised primarily of purchased gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to PECO, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to PECO. Purchased gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customers bill and may be adjusted quarterly, represent gas commodity costs that PECO recovers from customers. PECOs cash flows can be impacted by differences between the time period when gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. When purchased gas cost charges increase substantially, as they have throughout 44 Table of Contents 2005 in response to higher gas procurement costs incurred by PECO, customer usage may decrease, resulting in lower distribution charges and lower profit margins for PECO. In addition, increased purchased gas cost charges to customers also may result in increased bad debt expense from an increase in the number of uncollectible accounts receivable. The effects of weather and the related impact on electricity and gas usage may decrease ComEds and PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below moderate levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. As a corollary, moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd and PECO typically report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme weather conditions or storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting its ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs operations. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. ComEds and PECOs results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if either is unable to effectively manage their respective capital projects. Other Exelons and ComEds goodwill may become further impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $3.5 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2005. This goodwill was recognized and recorded in connection with the PECO / Unicom merger. With the proposed Merger with PSEG, it is anticipated that approximately $6 billion to $7 billion of additional goodwill will be recorded at Exelon across various business units. See the Merger section below for further discussion. Under GAAP, the goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, such as the one recorded during 2005, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. Under Illinois law, any impairment of goodwill has no impact on the determination of ComEds rate cap through the transition period. There is a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at ComEd, and at Exelon, in 2006 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, market prices for power, results of ComEds post 2006 rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. 45 Table of Contents Generation Market Transition Risks Generation will be exposed to increased market risk and price volatility after the expiration of significant purchase power arrangements after 2006. Generation sells a majority of its output to ComEd and PECO under long term PPAs. As a result of the pending expiration of the PPA between Generation and ComEd at the end of 2006, Generation will be exposed to increased commodity price risk associated with the electricity historically sold to serve ComEds load obligations. Generation will continue to be exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices for electricity after 2006 for the unhedged portion of its electricity trading portfolio. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in looking for hedging strategies to mitigate this risk. Accordingly, Generation may need to sell more electricity at market based prices than it currently does. Increased market sales and new contractual arrangements under a competitive model may adversely affect Generations credit risk due to an increase in the number of customers and the loss of a highly predictable revenue source. Although the order issued by the ICC authorizes the reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power after 2006 for ComEd, that decision remains subject to petitions for rehearing and is likely to be challenged in court. In addition, the Illinois General Assembly has held hearings concerning generation procurement post 2006 and it may choose to take further action on this issue. In April 2005, a proposed amendment to the Illinois Public Utilities Act was introduced in Committee hearings in the Illinois legislature, which, if enacted into law, would have extended the current rate freeze and transition period for an additional two years. However, the proposed amendment was defeated in Committee. Generation cannot predict the results of those challenges or whether the Illinois General Assembly might take further action that could have a material impact on Generation, including actions that would attempt to require Generation to enter into a full requirements PPA with ComEd to sell power at below market prices beginning in 2007. Generations business may be negatively affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features which may create trading barriers among the markets. The FERC has proposed initiatives, including RTOs, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers. The FERCs effort to promote RTOs throughout the states has generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. In addition, efforts to develop a RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. Generation supports the development of RTOs and implementation of standard market protocols for these regions, and others, but cannot predict their success or whether they will lead to the development of the large, successful wholesale markets. Approximately 79% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM, following PJMs expansion to the Midwest markets in 2004. The PJM market has been the most successful and liquid regional market. Generations future results of operations may be negatively affected by the continued expansion of that market or the implementation of any market changes mandated by the FERC. 46 Table of Contents Provider of Last Resort. As discussed above, ComEd and PECO have POLR obligations that they have effectively transferred to Generation through full requirements contracts. Because the choice of an electricity generation supplier lies with the customer, planning to meet these obligations has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. It is difficult for Generation to plan the electricity demand of ComEd and PECO customers. The uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd and PECO load for which Generation must provide increases Generations costs and may limit its sales opportunities. A significant under estimation of the electric load requirements of ComEd and PECO could result in Generation not having enough power to cover its supply obligation, in which case Generation would be required to buy power from third parties or in the spot markets at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be as favorable, or as manageable, as Generations long term supply expenses and thus could increase Generations total costs. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. These new generating facilities may be more efficient than Generations facilities. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. As the demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Both Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built at the risk of market participants. Any construction of new generating facilities by Generation would be subject to market concentration tests administered by the FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by the FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Generations financial growth depends on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. Nuclear Operations Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have a higher operating cost than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Refueling outages. Outages at nuclear stations to replenish fuel require the station to be turned off. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 24 days in duration. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 24 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual 47 Table of Contents capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the AmerGen plants and the co owned plants, was eleven in 2005 with eleven planned for 2006. The projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation will increase in 2006 compared to 2005 by approximately $39 million as Generation continues to invest in equipment upgrades to ensure safe reliable operations. Maintenance expenditures are expected to increase by approximately $67 million in 2006 compared to 2005 as a result of inflationary cost increases and one additional planned nuclear outage at the nuclear stations operated and wholly owned by Generation. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization and or increased outage costs. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Spent nuclear fuel storage. Generation incurs costs on an annual basis for the storage of spent nuclear fuel. Under the terms of the settlement reached with the DOE in 2004, Generation is being reimbursed for costs of spent fuel storage only after costs are incurred and only for costs resulting from DOE delays in accepting the fuel. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE under the settlement. Also, the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may affect the ability to fully decommission the nuclear units. In addition, the State of Nevada recently challenged the NRCs waste confidence rule, 10 CFR 51.23, pursuant to which, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basis or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. The rule remains in place at this time, and is unlikely to be revised in the near future unless the D.C. Circuit overturns the NRCs denial of Nevadas petition. Under the waste confidence rule, the NRC has made a determination that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license, of that reactor at its spent fuel storage basis or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. If the NRC changes or is forced to change its determination it could affect the nuclear generating stations ability to store additional waste. License Renewals. Generations nuclear facilities are currently operating under 40 year NRC licenses. Generation has applied for and received 20 year renewals for the licenses that will be expiring in the next ten years or, in the case of Oyster Creek, an order that will permit Oyster Creek to operate beyond its license expiration in April 2009 if the NRC has not completed reviewing the application for renewal. Generation intends to evaluate opportunities, as permitted by the NRC, to apply for license renewals for some or all of the remaining licenses. If the renewals are granted, Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of the renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated until the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. Should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. 48 Table of Contents Environmental risk. In July 2004, the EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. This rule establishes national requirements for reducing the adverse environmental impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing power plants. The rule identifies particular standards of performance with respect to entrainment and impingement and requires each facility to monitor and validate this performance in future years. The requirements will be implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. All of Generations power generation facilities with cooling water systems are subject to the regulations. Facilities without closed cycle recirculating systems (e.g. cooling towers) are potentially most affected. Those facilities are Clinton, Cromby Dresden, Eddystone, Fairless Hills, Handley, Mountain Creek, New Boston, Oyster Creek, Peach Bottom, Quad Cities and Salem. During the NJDEP system permit renewal process for both Salem and Oyster Creek, the NJDEP primarily concluded that closed cycle cooling for Salem and Oyster Creek and environmental restoration for Oyster Creek are the only viable compliance options for Section 316(b). See ITEM 1. Business section for further details on Environmental Water Regulations. AmerGen and PSEG have not made a determination regarding how compliance of Section 316(b) will be met for Oyster Creek and Salem. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations requires the retrofitting of Oyster Creek and Salems cooling water intake structure, or extensive wetlands restoration, this could result in material costs of compliance. In addition, the amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to renew the operating license. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. In January 2004, the NRC issued a letter to PSEG to conduct a review of its Salem facility, of which Generation owns 42.59%, to assess the workplace environment for raising and addressing safety issues. Since that time, PSEG has worked with the NRC under its oversight program to address the matters, which focus on a safety conscious work environment, raised by the NRCs letter. Throughout 2005, PSEG has and will continue to provide updated information to the NRC as required under their workplan. The spent fuel pool at each Salem Unit has an installed leakage collection system. This normal leakage path was found to be obstructed, causing concern about the extent of leakage contact with the fuel handling buildings concrete structure. PSEG is developing a solution to maintain the design function of the leakage collection system and is investigating the extent of any structural degradation caused by the leakage. The investigation should take approximately one year. If any significant degradation is identified, the repair costs to the owners of the facility could be material. The NRC issued Information Notice 2004 05 in March 2004 concerning this emerging industry issue and Generation cannot predict what further actions the NRC may take on this matter. 49 Table of Contents Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generations, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The limit as of December 31, 2005 is $10.76 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $10.76 billion limit. Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2005 was $40 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. The ICC permits ComEd, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect funds from their customers, which are deposited in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation. Collections by ComEd are limited and permitted only through 2006. The collections by ComEd and PECO are based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, other than AmerGen facilities. The ICC permitted ComEd to recover $73 million per year from retail customers for decommissioning for the years 2001 through 2004 and, depending upon the portion of the output of certain generating stations taken by ComEd, up to $73 million in 2005 and 2006. Because ComEd did not take all of the output of these stations, actual collections were $68 million in 2005 and are expected to be approximately the same in 2006. Subsequent to 2006, there will be no further recoveries of decommissioning costs from ComEds customers. PECO is currently recovering $33 million annually for nuclear decommissioning. Generation expects that these collections will continue through the operating license life of each of the former PECO units, with adjustments every five years to reflect changes in cost estimates and decommissioning trust fund performance. These trust funds, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin in 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $5.6 billion of investments in trust funds at December 31, 2005. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2005, one of Generations 23 units is currently underfunded by less than three percent with respect to NRC Funding Levels. Generation will submit its next biennial report to the NRC in March 2006. 50 Table of Contents In 2003, GAO published a study on the NRCs need for more effective analyses to ensure the adequate accumulation of funds to decommission nuclear power plants in the United States. As it has in the past, the GAO concluded that accumulated and future proposed funding was inadequate to achieve NRC Funding Levels at a number of U.S. nuclear plants, including a number of Generations plants. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, when decommissioning activities are initiated, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to provide other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Other Operating Risks Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. The majority of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under long term PPAs with ComEd and PECO. To the extent portions of the portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent its portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of ComEd and PECO, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation relies on the availability of electric transmission facilities that it does not own or control to deliver its wholesale electric power to the purchasers of the power, which may adversely affect its ability to deliver power to its customers. Generation depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other companies, including ComEd and PECO, to deliver the power that it sells at wholesale. If transmission at these facilities is disrupted or transmission capacity is inadequate, Generation may not be able to sell and deliver its wholesale power. The North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at a point within the grid can cause a systemic response that results in an extensive power outage. If a regions power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, Generations recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. In addition, if restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The FERC has commenced electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. Generation also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity under long and short term contracts in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation 51 Table of Contents that is not used to meet its commitments to ComEd and PECO are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. In the event that lower wholesale prices of electricity reduce Generations current or forecasted cash flows, the carrying value of Generations generating units may be determined to be impaired and Generation would be required to incur an impairment loss. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money or energy will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell power in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. Due to the termination of its PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006 and its obligation to auction off output from its nuclear plants mandated by the FERC order approving the Merger, Generations liquidity requirements and credit risk exposure could increase. In addition, the retail businesses of Exelon Energy subject Generation to credit risk resulting from a different customer base. Risk of Credit Downgrades. Generations trading business is required to meet credit quality standards. If it were to lose its investment grade credit rating or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, Generation would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect its liquidity. If Generation had lost its investment grade credit as of December 31, 2005, it would have been required to provide approximately $1,388 million in collateral. Immature Markets. Certain wholesale spot markets are new and evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. While the FERC has proposed initiatives to standardize wholesale spot markets, Generation cannot predict whether that effort will be successful, what form any of these markets will eventually take or what roles Generation will play in them. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. The Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. This activity, along with the effects of any specialized accounting for trading contracts, may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements to ComEd and PECO. Extreme 52 Table of Contents weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Power Teams risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its energy trading activities. Power Teams power trading (including fuel procurement and power marketing) activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage its exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its power trading and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generations business is capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations results of operations could be adversely affected if Generation were unable to effectively manage its capital projects. General Business The following risk factors may adversely impact all of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Results of operations may be negatively affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. As a result of the rate freezes for ComEd and caps for PECO under which the businesses operate and price pressures due to competition, ComEd and PECO may not be able to pass the costs of inflation through to their customers. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, which are increasing at a rate that greatly exceeds the rate of general inflation. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs or other increasing costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. Market performance may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants and under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Exelons holding company structure could limit its ability to pay dividends. Exelon is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Exelons ability to pay dividends on 53 Table of Contents its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. Under applicable Federal law, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from the amount of retained, undistributed or current earnings. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2005, a new board of directors with responsibilities solely for ComEd was selected. The ComEd board of directors may elect to adopt a different dividend policy. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. In addition, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action, such as that proposed in The Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005, could require Generation to contribute to a fund with a material contribution to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. For additional information regarding environmental matters, see Environmental Regulation in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. War, acts and threats of terrorism and natural disaster may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. Exelon does not know the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Exelons operations. Additionally, the continuing military activity in Iraq and other wars may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Exelons revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect Exelons results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in increased costs. Additionally, Exelon is affected by changes in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes, storms and other natural disaster in its service territory and throughout the U.S. Severe weather or other 54 Table of Contents natural disasters could be destructive which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operation Executive Overview in ITEM 7 for additional information on the expected impact due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Changes in the availability and cost of insurance mean that the Registrants have greater exposure to economic loss due to property damage and liability. The Registrants carry property damage and liability insurance for their properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, the costs of obtaining such insurance may be higher and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. The Registrants are self insured for deductibles and to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under their property damage and liability insurance, together with the deductible, could negatively affect their results of operations. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. Other than as noted below, the Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Increases in state income taxes. Due to the revenue needs of the states in which the Registrants operate, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being considered. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase state income tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. 1999 Sale of the Fossil Generating Assets. Exelon, through its ComEd subsidiary, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), to defer the taxation of the gain realized on the 1999 sale of its fossil generation assets. Exelons ability to continue to defer all or a portion of this liability depends on whether its treatment of a portion of the sale proceeds, as having been received in connection with an involuntary conversion, is proper pursuant to applicable law. Exelons ability to continue to defer the remainder of this liability may depend in part on whether its tax characterization of a lease transaction it entered into in connection with the sale is proper pursuant to applicable law. A successful IRS challenge to ComEds positions would have the impact of accelerating future income tax payments and increasing interest expense related to the deferred tax liability that becomes current. Federal tax returns covering the period of the 1999 sale are currently under IRS audit. Final resolution of this matter is not anticipated for several years. Exelons potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $951 million. It is presently unclear the extent to which the IRS will seek to disallow the deferral of tax liability resulting from the 1999 sale of fossil generating assets, if at all, and if it were to do so, the extent to which any 55 Table of Contents such challenge would be successful. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, it could negatively impact Exelons results of operations by as much as $135 million (after tax). See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries has investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45k of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. Exelons right to tax credits generated by the facilities was recorded as intangible assets which are amortized as the tax credits are earned. Section 45k contains a provision under which tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. Recent events, such as terrorism, natural disasters and strong worldwide demand, have significantly increased the price of domestic crude oil and, therefore, have created uncertainty as to the value of future synthetic fuel tax credits and the net carrying value of the intangible assets. Exelon estimates that there could be a significant phase out of tax credits in 2006 and 2007 based on the expected futures prices. Absent any efforts to mitigate price exposure, a phase out could result in the reduction of non operating net income generated by the investments and could result in substantial non operating losses in 2006 and 2007 in the event all tax credits are completely eliminated. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Executive Overview and Liquidity and Capital Resources in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for further detail. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance of these guaranteed obligations by the third parties, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance could have a material impact on the financial statements of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding guarantees. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. The Registrants may continue to pursue investments that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. With the repeal of PUHCA, the Registrants are free to make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that were formerly not permitted under PUHCA and that might present more risk than the types of investments and mergers and acquisitions that were permitted under PUHCA. However, with the repeal of PUHCA, it is possible that the public utility commissions of each state may impose certain other restrictions on the investments that the Registrants may make. On December 20, 2004, Exelon announced the execution of the Merger Agreement with PSEG. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and PSEG are integrated in an efficient and effective manner, as well as general competitive factors in the market place. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits from the Merger or other strategic investments could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. See the Proposed Merger with PSEG section below for further risk information. Proposed Merger with PSEG The business of PSEG and its subsidiaries is subject to various risks similar to risks associated with the business of Exelon and its subsidiaries. Upon completion of the Merger, the combined 56 Table of Contents company will be subject to these risks of PSEG and its subsidiaries. In addition, there are various risks associated with the proposed Merger including the following: Exelon and PSEG could fail to complete the Merger for various reasons, which could have an adverse effect on Exelon. Several events must occur before the Merger may be completed, such as the receipt of the required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of various conditions to the obligations of each of Exelon and PSEG, including: the other party having performed in all material respects all agreements required to be performed by it under the Merger Agreement, the representations and warranties of the other party contained in the Merger Agreement being true and correct in all material respects, the absence of any material adverse effect having occurred to the other company since the date of the Merger Agreement and the approval by the NJBPU that the combined company will be able to recover Public Service Electric and Gas Companys pension and other postretirement benefit expenses (as discussed in more detail below). In addition, the Merger Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to completion of the Merger by mutual written consent of Exelon and PSEG, by either party if a governmental authority takes any final action prohibiting the Merger, by either party if a governmental authority approves the Merger but issues a burdensome order (as defined in the Merger Agreement), or by either party if the Merger is not completed by June 20, 2006. In addition, the Merger Agreement may be terminated by Exelon for various specific reasons, including a material breach of any agreement of PSEG in the Merger Agreement which would result in a closing condition to the Merger not being satisfied and which cannot be cured by PSEG within 30 days after written notice is given by Exelon. PSEG can terminate the Merger Agreement for various specific reasons, including a material breach of any agreement of Exelon in the Merger Agreement which would result in a closing condition to the Merger not being satisfied and which cannot be cured by Exelon within 30 days after written notice is given by PSEG. If the Merger were unable to be consummated, Exelon would be required to expense previously capitalized Merger costs, totaling $46 million at December 31, 2005, which would negatively impact its results of operations. Exelon may be unable to successfully integrate PSEGs operations or realize all of the synergies expected to be derived from the Merger. The Merger involves the integration of two companies that previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining each companys operations include: the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; and integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds. In addition, the integration of some of Exelons and PSEGs operations will require regulatory approval. Exelon recognizes that the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined companys businesses. The diversion of managements attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the Merger and the integration of the two companies operations could have an adverse effect on the business, 57 Table of Contents financial condition, operating results and prospects of the combined company after the Merger, and could impair the combined companys ability to realize the expected synergies and other anticipated benefits of the Merger. The application of the purchase method of accounting will result in approximately $6 billion to $7 billion of additional goodwill, which could become impaired following completion of the Merger. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price paid by Exelon in the Merger will be allocated to PSEGs tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the Merger. The excess of the purchase price over those fair values will be recorded as goodwill. Exelon expects that the Merger will result in the creation of approximately $6 billion to $7 billion in goodwill based upon the assumptions as of the date of the completion of the Merger. As a result, upon completion of the Merger, the combined company will have approximately $10 billion to $11 billion in goodwill. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, the combined company may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on the combined companys operating results. The combined company may be unable to obtain permission from the NJBPU to recover Public Service Electric and Gas Companys pension and other postretirement benefit expenses, which could have an adverse effect on its cash flow and results of operation. Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), a public utility subsidiary of PSEG, is permitted by its current NJBPU rate order to recover through its rates the amortized portion of its pension expenses and other postretirement benefit expenses associated with its pension and postretirement obligations. As a result of the application of the purchase method of accounting to these costs, the recognition of certain unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit expenses will be accelerated and, as a result, will no longer be reflected in the calculation of pension and other postretirement benefit expenses that PSE&Gs current rate order permits it to recover. PSE&G estimates that it could have as much as $1.4 billion in unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit expenses that it may be unable to recover following completion of the Merger unless it obtains approval from the NJBPU to permit continued recovery of those expenses in the manner the current rate order permits. Exelon and PSEG have made it a condition to completion of the Merger that PSE&G receive an order from the NJBPU permitting PSE&G to continue to recover the pension expenses as it did prior to completion of the Merger. PSE&G has requested such an order in the Merger approval proceeding, and no party has objected to the request for recovery, provided that the requested recovery of pension and postretirement expense would not be expected to increase rates above current levels. However, there is no assurance that PSE&G will receive such an order from NJBPU or that if it does receive such an order, it will be permitted in future rate proceedings to continue to recover these expenses. Failure to obtain or maintain the right to recover the pension and other postretirement benefit expenses would have an adverse effect on the combined companys cash flow and results of operations. Exelon will incur significant transaction and Merger related integration costs in connection with the Merger. Exelon expects to incur costs associated with consummating the Merger and integrating the operations of Exelon and PSEG, as well as approximately $41 million in transaction costs. The estimated $41 million of transaction costs incurred by Exelon will be included as a component of the purchase price for purposes of purchase accounting. The amount of transaction fees expected to be incurred is a preliminary estimate and subject to change. Exelon has estimated the integration costs 58 Table of Contents associated with the Merger to be approximately $700 million over a period of four years, with approximately $400 million being incurred in the first full year of operations following completion of the Merger. These estimates may change, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of the two companies. Although Exelon believes that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset incremental transaction and Merger related costs over time, it cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. Exelon and PSEG will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while completion of the Merger is pending that could adversely affect their businesses. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Exelon and PSEG and, consequently, on the combined company. Although Exelon and PSEG have taken and will continue to take steps to reduce adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair Exelons and PSEGs ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with Exelon and PSEG to seek to change existing business relationships with Exelon and PSEG. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Merger, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. If, despite Exelons and PSEGs retention efforts, key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, the combined companys business could be seriously harmed. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts Exelon and PSEG from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Merger occurs or the Merger Agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent Exelon and PSEG from pursuing attractive business opportunities and making other changes to their businesses that may arise prior to completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. The combined company and its subsidiaries may be subject to adverse regulatory conditions following completion of the Merger. Before the Merger may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from various utility regulatory, antitrust and other authorities in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. The governmental entities from which these approvals are required may fail to approve the Merger, impose conditions on completion of the Merger, or require changes to the terms of the Merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Merger, any of which might have a material adverse effect on the combined company following completion of the Merger. On July 1, 2005, the FERC issued an order approving the Merger and the market concentration mitigation plan proposed by Exelon and PSEG. Exelon, PSEG and the combined company may incur significant expenses in completing the divestitures contemplated by the market concentration mitigation plan. In addition, they may have difficulty in successfully completing the divestitures for a variety of reasons and the amounts that may be realized from the divestitures will depend on market conditions that fluctuate. As a result, the pricing and other terms realized on the divestiture may be materially different from what is currently expected. On September 13, 2005, PECO filed before the PAPUC a partial settlement regarding PECOs distribution and transmission rates through 2010 and made other financial commitments contingent upon the approval of PECOs application to the PAPUC related to the Merger. See Partial Settlements Before the PAPUC in ITEM 1. Business for further detail. The settlement and the Merger have received PAPUC approval but the settlement will not become effective unless the Merger is completed. The completion of this settlement will negatively impact the results of operations of PECO and the combined company. 59 Table of Contents Under the combined companys holding company structure, the payment of dividends to shareholders will be subject to the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends. The combined company will be a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of the combined companys operations will be conducted by its subsidiaries. The combined companys ability to pay dividends on its common stock will depend on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. These subsidiaries payments of dividends to the combined company in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items impacting retained earnings. Under applicable law, PSE&G can pay dividends only from the amount of retained, undistributed or current earnings. Following completion of the Merger, a significant loss recorded at PSE&G may limit the dividends that PSE&G can distribute to Exelon. As a condition to approval of other utility mergers, the NJBPU has imposed dividends restrictions. Exelon can give no assurance that a similar restriction will not be imposed on PSE&G. In addition, PSEG Energy Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries are parties to debt agreements that restrict their ability to pay dividends, make cash distributions or otherwise transfer funds to PSEG, or after completion of the Merger, the combined company. PSEGs business is, and the combined companys business will be, subject to extensive regulation that will affect operations and costs. The combined company will be subject to regulation by FERC and the NRC, by Federal, state and local authorities under environmental laws and by state public utility commissions under laws regulating Exelons and PSEGs distribution businesses, among others. See Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including its rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings that are contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which introduce time delays in effecting rate changes as well as uncertainty as to the ultimate result above for further discussion. Additionally, the combined company will also be subject to additional risks currently applicable to PSEG as described below. PSE&Gs New Jersey base rates for electric and gas distribution are subject to regulation by the NJBPU and are effective until a new base rate case is filed and concluded. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current costs. The inability to recover material costs not included in base rates or adjustment clauses could have an adverse effect on cash flow and financial position of the combined company. PSEG Global LLC (PSEG Global) is a subsidiary of PSEG with rate regulated electric and gas distribution facilities located in various foreign jurisdictions. Governmental authorities establish rates charged to customers. While these rates are designed to cover all operating costs and provide a return, considerable fiscal and cash uncertainties in certain countries due to local regulation or economic, political and social crisis could have an adverse impact. In addition, future rates may not be adequate to provide cash flow to pay principal and interest on the debt of PSEG Globals subsidiaries and affiliates or to enable its subsidiaries and affiliates to comply with the terms of debt agreements. The combined companys generation business may incur additional costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of additional nuclear facilities. Following completion of the Merger, it is expected that, prior to giving effect to any divestitures required by governmental authorities to complete the Merger and prior to implementing the combined companys anticipated strategy of divesting assets that do not meet the strategic objectives of the combined company, approximately 46% of the combined companys owned generation capacity will be nuclear and the combined company will own approximately 20% of the nuclear generation capacity in the United States. To the extent there are divestitures of fossil assets, such as described in The 60 Table of Contents combined company may be subject to adverse regulatory conditions following completion of the Merger above, the percentage of the combined companys owned generation capacity which is nuclear will increase. Accordingly, the combined company will have greater exposure to risks that adversely affect the nuclear generation industry compared to other companies in the utility industry. See Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities above for further discussion. The combined companys generation business may incur additional costs and liabilities and be exposed to volatility as a result of expanded participation in the wholesale energy markets. Generation and PSEG, and the combined company, will sell electricity in the wholesale energy markets. Generation and PSEG are subject to many of the same risks in the wholesale energy markets. See Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations above for further discussion. Following completion of the proposed Merger, the combined company will be subject to additional risks associated with participation in the wholesale energy markets as described below. The trading business of the combined company after the Merger will be required to meet credit quality standards. If the generation business of the combined company were to lose its investment grade credit rating or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect the liquidity of the combined company. See Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations above for further discussion. If PSEG Power had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2005, it would have been required to provide approximately $916 million in additional collateral. Due to the increased size of the combined companys generation business, a trading counterparty that does business with both Generation and PSEG Power might impose credit limits or other credit quality standards on the combined companys generation business that are more restrictive than would otherwise be applicable to Generation and PSEG Power as separate operations. The IRS might successfully challenge certain leveraged lease transactions entered into by PSEG, which could have a material adverse impact on the combined companys operating results. From 1996 through 2002, PSEG, through its indirect wholly owned subsidiary, PSEG Resources, entered into a number of leveraged lease transactions in the ordinary course of business. Certain of those transactions that were previously entered into are similar to a type that the IRS subsequently announced its intention to challenge, and PSEG understands that similar transactions entered into by other companies have been the subject of review and challenge by the IRS. The IRS is presently reviewing the tax returns of PSEG and its subsidiaries for tax years 1997 through 2000, years when Resources entered into some of these transactions. On September 27, 2005, the IRS proposed to disallow PSEGs deductions associated with certain of these leveraged leases which have been designated by the IRS as listed transactions. Other lease transactions within the audit period are still under the IRSs review. The IRS may propose additional disallowances in the future. If deductions associated with these lease transactions entered into by PSEG are successfully challenged by the IRS, it could have a material adverse impact on the combined companys financial position, results of operations and net cash flows and could impact future returns on these transactions. 61 Table of Contents If the tax benefits associated with the above referenced lease transactions were completely disallowed by the IRS, approximately $660 million of deferred tax liabilities that have been recorded under leveraged lease accounting through December 31, 2005 could become currently payable. In addition, interest expense of approximately $86 million, after tax, and penalties could be assessed. The FASB is currently considering a modification to GAAP for leveraged leases. Under present GAAP, a tax settlement with the IRS that results in a change in the timing of tax liabilities would not require an accounting repricing of the lease investment. As such, income from the lease would continue to accrue at the original economic yield computed for the lease and there would be no write down of the lease investment. The proposal concerning leveraged leases would require a lessor to perform a recalculation of a leveraged lease when there is a change in the timing of the realization of tax benefits generated by the lease. It would also require a lessor to re evaluate classification as a leveraged lease when a recalculation of the lease is performed. If implemented in its present form, the impact of this proposal on the combined company could be material. Because a portion of the combined companys business will be conducted outside the United States, adverse international developments could negatively impact its business. Following completion of the Merger and prior to implementing the combined companys anticipated strategy of divesting assets that do not meet the strategic objectives of the combined company, it is expected that revenues generated from sources outside the United States and assets located outside the United States will each be less than 5% of the total combined company, most of which will be held by and generated from PSEG Global. The economic and political conditions in certain countries where PSEG Global has interests present risks that may be different from, or more extensive than, those found in the United States including: foreign currency fluctuations; risks of war; expropriation; nationalization; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; and changes in law or tax policy. Changes in the legal environment in foreign countries in which PSEG Global has investments could make it more difficult to obtain non recourse project refinancing on suitable terms and could impair PSEG Globals ability to enforce its rights under agreements relating to such projects. In addition, such changes could make it more difficult for the combined company to pursue an accelerated strategy of selling certain of PSEG Globals investments that no longer meet the strategic objectives of the combined company. Operations in foreign countries also present risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings. In countries in which PSEG Global operates in the future, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect PSEG Globals ability to convert its cash distributions to United States dollars or other freely convertible currencies, or to move funds offshore from these countries. Furthermore, the central bank of any of these countries may have the authority to suspend, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on foreign exchange transactions or to 62 Table of Contents approve distributions to foreign investors. Although PSEG Global generally seeks to structure purchase power contracts and other project revenue agreements to provide for payments to be made in, or indexed to, United States dollars or a currency freely convertible into United States dollars, its ability to do so in all cases may be limited. The combined companys results of operations may be affected by its ability to divest unprofitable or under performing businesses. The combined company will pursue opportunities to sell businesses and assets that either do not meet the strategic objectives of the combined company or are unprofitable. The combined company may incur significant expenses in divesting these businesses. The combined company also may be unable to successfully implement this strategy for a number of reasons, including an inability to locate appropriate buyers or to negotiate acceptable terms for the transactions. In addition, the amounts that the combined company may realize from a divestiture are subject to fluctuating market conditions that may contribute to pricing and other terms that are materially different than expected and could result in a loss on the sale. Timing of any divestitures may positively or negatively affect the combined companys results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ComEd and PECO The electric substations and a portion of the transmission rights of way are located on property owned by ComEd and PECO. A significant portion of the electric transmission and distribution facilities is located over or under highways, streets, other public places or property owned by others, for which permits, grants, easements or licenses, deemed satisfactory by ComEd and PECO but without examination of underlying land titles, have been obtained. Transmission and Distribution ComEds and PECOs higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2005 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles ComEd 765,000 90 345,000 2,621 138,000 2,866 69,000 149 PECO 500,000 188 (a) 220,000 541 132,000 156 66,000 153 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership of 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership of 151 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,082 circuit miles of overhead lines and 33,804 cable miles of underground lines. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,873 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,201 cable miles of underground lines. 63 Table of Contents Gas The following table sets forth PECOs gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2005: Pipeline Miles Transmission 31 Distribution 6,528 Service piping 5,377 Total 11,936 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania which has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. Mortgages The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first mortgage bonds are issued. Insurance ComEd and PECO maintain property insurance against loss or damage to their respective properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd and PECO are self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd or PECO. Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2005. The table does not include properties held by equity method investments: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type PrimaryDispatch Type (e) Net GenerationCapacity (MW) (b) Nuclear (c) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,030 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,742 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,302 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,135 (d) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,232 (d) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 969 (d) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,856 (continued on next page) 64 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type PrimaryDispatch Type (e) Net GenerationCapacity (MW) (b) Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (d) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Base load 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Base load 588 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 916 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 400 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 358 (d) Mountain Creek 2, 6, 7 Dallas, TX 3 Gas Peaking 273 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 550 New Boston 1 South Boston, MA 1 Gas Intermediate 353 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (d) 5,157 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 384 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 30 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 160 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil Peaking 110 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Gas Peaking 13 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 72.00 Gas Peaking 312 (f) Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,466 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co. MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 536 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,071 1,607 Total 126 25,099 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (c) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (d) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. 65 Table of Contents (e) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the day time higher load hours, and consequently produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units are plants that usually house low efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels, or pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. (f) Includes the total capacity of the Southeast Chicago Energy Project. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the property deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are parties to various regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of business. They are also parties to regulatory proceedings in connection with the Merger. Other material legal and regulatory proceedings are summarized below. Exelon, PECO and Generation PJM Billing Dispute. In December 2004, Exelon filed a complaint against PJM and PPL Electric with the FERC alleging that PJM had overcharged Exelon from April 1998 through May 2003 as a result of a billing error. Specifically, the complaint alleges that PJM mistakenly identified PPL Electrics Elroy substation transformer as belonging to Exelon and that, as a consequence, during times of congestion, Exelons bills for transmission congestion from PJM erroneously reflected energy that PPL Electric took from the Elroy substation and used to serve PPL Electrics load. The complaint requested the FERC, among other things, to direct PPL Electric to refund to PJM $39.1 million, plus interest of approximately $8 million, and for PJM to refund these same amounts to Exelon. On September 14, 2005, Exelon and PPL Electric filed a proposed settlement of this matter with the FERC. If the settlement is approved by the FERC, Exelon will receive a total of $40.5 million, plus interest, over the next four years from two funding sources: (a) $33 million from PPL Electric; and (b) $7.5 million from PJM market participants. It is anticipated that approximately 75% and 25% of the proposed settlement will be received by Generation and PECO, respectively. Both charges will be collected and paid by PJM over a four year period following FERC approval of the settlement with interest on the unpaid principal accruing over the collection and payment period. As Exelon is a market participant in PJM, if this settlement is approved by the FERC, the net amount of the settlement to be received by Exelon will be reduced by Exelons portion of the $7.5 million described above. Pending FERC approval of the settlement, Exelon has not recorded any receivables associated with this matter. ComEd Illinois Procurement Filing. On January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power by ComEd for the time period 66 Table of Contents after 2006. Several parties have indicated that they will petition the ICC for rehearing and will challenge the ICC decision in court. ComEd has also petitioned for rehearing of the ICC decision on certain issues, but that petition was denied by the ICC on February 8, 2006. It is also possible that interested parties could introduce legislation in Illinois in attempt to modify the procurement process or the rates that ComEd may charge consumers for the power ComEd purchases to meet the needs of consumers. The Illinois General Assembly has held hearings concerning generation procurement after 2006, and it may take action on this issue. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information Illinois Rate Case. On August 31, 2005, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC, which seeks, among other things, to allocate the costs of delivering electricity and to adjust ComEds rates for delivering electricity effective January 2, 2007 (Rate Case). Several intervenors in the Rate Case, including the ICC staff and the Illinois Attorney General, have suggested, and provided testimony, that ComEds rates should actually be reduced. The commodity component of ComEds rates will be established by the reverse auction process in accordance with the ICC order in the Procurement Case, assuming the ICC order on this matter is upheld upon appeal. The results of the Rate Case are not expected to be known until at least the third quarter of 2006. PECO and Generation Real Estate Tax Appeals. PECO and Generation each have been challenging real estate taxes assessed on nuclear plants. PECO is involved in litigation in which it is contesting taxes assessed in 1997 under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Realty Tax Act of March 4, 1971, as amended (PURTA), and has appealed local real estate assessments for 1998 and 1999 on the Limerick Generating Station (Montgomery County, PA) (Limerick) and Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station (York County, PA) (Peach Bottom) plants. Generation is involved in real estate tax appeals for 2000 through 2004, also regarding the valuation of its Limerick and Peach Bottom plants, Quad Cities Station (Rock Island County, IL), Three Mile Island Nuclear Station (Dauphin County, PA) (TMI) and Oyster Creek Station (Forked River, NJ). PECO and Generation have reached settlements with the taxing authorities over the Limerick real estate assessments for 1998 and 1999. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, all Limerick tax appeals were dismissed by the state court, and PECO has agreed to an additional payment of approximately $3 million for the two PURTA years and Generation has agreed to make additional payments in lieu of taxes for years 2005 through 2008. As a result of the Limerick settlement, PECO reduced its real estate tax reserve balance by $6 million in the first quarter of 2005. In addition, Generation has reached a settlement with the taxing authorities over the TMI real estate assessment, which has been approved by the state court. As a result of the TMI settlement, Generation reduced its real estate tax reserve balance by $6 million in the first quarter of 2005. Generation reached an agreement with the taxing authorities for all years under appeal for the Quad Cities station and the court approved the agreement on December 9, 2005. Generation also recently reached an agreement with the taxing authorities for all years under appeal for the Oyster Creek station an order implementing Oyster Creeks property tax settlement was entered on December 16, 2005. In addition, on December 22, 2005, Generation reached an agreement for the 2005 tax year with the taxing authorities for LaSalle County Station, and is working towards court approval by the end of the first quarter of 2006. PECO and Generation believe their reserve balances for other exposures associated with real estate taxes as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 reflect the probable expected outcome of the litigation and appeals proceedings in accordance with SFAS No. 5. The ultimate outcome of such matters, however, could result in unfavorable or favorable adjustments to the consolidated financial statements of Exelon, PECO and Generation and such adjustments could be material. Reverse Employment Discrimination Claim. On April 4, 2005, one employee of PECO and four employees of Generation commenced suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of 67 Table of Contents Pennsylvania, alleging that they were subjected to a practice of reverse employment discrimination which denied promotional opportunities to older white male employees, purportedly in violation of various Federal antidiscrimination statutes and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act. The plaintiffs filed the action individually and on behalf of a putative class that includes all white males currently or previously employed with any Exelon companies in the United States who were at least 40 years old on April 4, 2003 and who either applied for or were eligible to apply for supervisory positions in March 2003 and thereafter, continuing to the present day, and were not selected for these positions. The defendants have filed an answer denying all liability and are proceeding with discovery pertaining to the class allegations and the named plaintiffs individual claims. In December 2005, the Court ordered the case to be suspended until April 3, 2006 while the parties attempt to resolve this matter through non binding mediation. As this case is in the early stages, Exelon cannot predict the outcome; however, Exelon does not expect this claim to have a material adverse effect on Exelons financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Generation Cotter Corporation Litigation. During 1989 and 1991, actions were brought in Federal and state courts in Colorado against ComEd and its subsidiary, Cotter, seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief based on allegations that Cotter permitted radioactive and other hazardous material to be released from its mill into areas owned or occupied by the plaintiffs, resulting in property damage and potential adverse health effects. On February 18, 2000, ComEd sold Cotter to an unaffiliated third party. As part of the sale, ComEd agreed to indemnify Cotter for any liability incurred by Cotter as a result of any liability arising in connection with the West Lake Landfill. In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, this responsibility to indemnify Cotter was transferred by ComEd to Generation. Several of the actions resulted in nominal jury verdicts or were settled or dismissed. One action resulted in an award for the plaintiffs of a more substantial amount, but was reversed on April 22, 2003 by the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals and remanded for retrial. An appeal by the plaintiffs to the United States Supreme Court was denied on November 10, 2003. In October 2004, a settlement of the claims of all Cotter plaintiffs was reached and approved by the Federal District Court in Colorado. This settlement amount approximated Generations reserve for this matter. Settlements with the two primary Cotter insurers were also concluded, under which they paid Generation approximately $20 million, which covered the amount previously reserved as well as certain other costs incurred by Generation related to this matter. Neither of these settlements affects the environmental liability associated with the West Lake Landfill. The EPA has advised Cotter that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. Cotter, along with three other companies identified by the EPA as potentially responsible parties (PRPs), has submitted a draft feasibility study addressing options for remediation of the site. The estimated costs of the anticipated remediation strategy for the site range up to $22 million. Once a remedy is selected, it is expected that the PRPs will agree on an allocation of responsibility for the costs. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation. Asbestos Personal Injury Claims. Like many other industrial companies, Generation is a defendant in personal injury actions related to asbestos exposure in certain facilities that are currently owned by Generation or were previously owned by ComEd and PECO. The vast majority of these asbestos related bodily injury claims allege a variety of lung related diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos by former third party contractors involved in the original construction or maintenance of the facilities. The construction of these facilities primarily occurred between 1950 and 1975. Generation does not have significant asbestos related bodily injury claims occurring after 1980. As part of the 2001 restructuring in which Generation purchased ComEds and PECOs energy producing facilities, Generation assumed all of ComEds and PECOs current and future benefits and 68 Table of Contents liabilities associated with these facilities. Based on the receipt of asbestos related bodily injury claims during 2002, 2003 and 2004, where previously an insignificant number of claims were received and corresponding expenses were recorded, Generation engaged independent actuaries to determine if a reasonable estimate of future losses could be made based on historical claims data and other available information. Based on the currently available volume and diversity of historical claim and payment data, the actuaries determined that a reasonable estimate could be prepared and, accordingly, Generation engaged the actuaries to calculate an estimate of future losses. In the second quarter of 2005, based on the actuaries analyses, managements review of current and expected losses and the view of counsel regarding the assumptions used in estimating the future losses, Generation recorded an undiscounted $43 million pre tax charge for its estimated portion of all estimated future asbestos related personal injury claims estimated to be presented through 2030. This amount does not include estimated legal costs associated with handling these matters, which could be material. Exelon management determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims past 2030 based on only three years of historical claims data and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating future losses, management and the actuaries made various assumptions, including, but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that relate to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelons recent history of successfully defending itself in court cases for asbestos related bodily injury claims was qualitatively considered in determining this estimate. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon known facts at the time the report was prepared. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year and the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. While it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the asbestos related claims and settlements, management believes, after consultation with counsel, that resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations and financial position. Management cautions, however, that estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. The $43 million pre tax charge was recorded as part of operating and maintenance expense on Generations Consolidated Statement of Income in 2005 and reduced net income by $27 million. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Exelon had approximately $50 million and $10 million, respectively, reserved in total for asbestos related bodily injury claims. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $9 million of this amount relates to 120 open claims presented to Generation, while the remaining $41 million of the reserve is for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030. Exelon plans to obtain annual updates of the estimate of future losses. On a quarterly basis, Exelon monitors actual experience against the number of forecasted claims to be received and expected claim payments. Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund Claim. In December 2004, the two Salem nuclear generation units were taken offline due to an oil spill from a tanker in the Delaware River near the facilities. The units, which draw water from the river for cooling purposes, were taken offline for approximately two weeks to avoid intake of the spilled oil, resulting in lost sales from the plant. Generation and PSEG have filed a joint claim for losses and damages with the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. As this matter represents a contingent gain, Generation has recorded no income resulting from this claim. However, Generations management believes it is reasonably possible that damages and losses will be recovered and that 69 Table of Contents Generations portion of the estimated proceeds arising from the claim will be approximately $25 million. Exelon expects this matter to be resolved in 2006. General Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are involved in various other litigation matters that are being defended and handled in the ordinary course of business. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation maintain accruals for such costs that are probable of being incurred and subject to reasonable estimation. The ultimate outcomes of such matters, as well as the matters discussed above, are uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on their respective financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation None. 70 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2006, there were 667,233,091 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 160,754 shareholders of common stock of record. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2005 2004 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 56.00 $ 57.46 $ 52.01 $ 47.18 $ 44.90 $ 37.90 $ 34.89 $ 34.43 Low price 46.62 49.60 44.14 41.77 36.73 32.69 30.92 32.18 Close 53.14 53.44 51.33 45.89 44.07 36.69 33.29 34.43 Dividends 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.305 0.275 0.275 On July 22, 2005, Exelons shareholders approved the issuance of Exelon common stock as contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 20, 2004, between Exelon and PSEG. Effective October 24, 2005, Exelons Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation were amended to increase the number of authorized shares of Exelon common stock from 1.2 billion to 2 billion. The attached table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Exelon of its common stock. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 1 October 31, 2005 1,178 $ 53.44 (b ) November 1 November 30, 2005 1,943,670 51.82 1,928,900 (b ) December 1 December 31, 2005 3,250 53.50 (b ) Total 1,948,098 51.83 (b ) (a) Shares other than those purchased as a part of a publicly announced plan primarily represent restricted shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares and shares repurchased from an executive upon retirement from Exelon. (b) In April 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program that allows Exelon to repurchase shares of its common stock on a periodic basis in the open market. The share repurchase program is intended to mitigate, in part, the dilutive effect of shares issued under Exelons employee stock option plan and Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The aggregate shares of common stock repurchased pursuant to the program cannot exceed the economic benefit received after January 1, 2004 due to stock option exercises and share purchases pursuant to Exelons ESPP. The economic benefit consists of direct cash proceeds from purchases of stock and tax benefits associated with exercises of stock options. The share repurchase program has no specified limit and no specified termination date. 71 Table of Contents ComEd As of January 31, 2006, there were outstanding 127,016,519 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At January 31, 2006, in addition to Exelon, there were 273 holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. PECO As of January 31, 2006, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Generation As of January 31, 2006, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Dividends Under applicable Federal law, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at ComEd, PECO or Generation may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2005, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.2 billion, which includes ComEds retained deficit of $(81) million consisting of $1,099 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends offset by unappropriated deficit of $(1,180) million, PECOs retained earnings of $649 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $1,002 million. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2005, such capital was $2.8 billion and amounted to about 32 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PEC L.P. or PECO Trust IV; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities). The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2005 and 2004: 2005 2004 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.305 $ 0.275 $ 0.275 72 Table of Contents The following table sets forth ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments and Generations quarterly distributions: 2005 2004 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter ComEd $ 146 $ 107 $ 107 $ 138 $ 137 $ 113 $ 104 $ 103 PECO 122 116 116 115 115 96 90 90 Generation 108 430 80 239 335 61 55 54 In July 2004, the Exelon Board of Directors approved a policy of targeting a dividend payout ratio of 50% to 60% of ongoing earnings. On January 24, 2006, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2006, to shareholders of record of Exelon at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on February 15, 2006. The Board of Directors of Exelon also declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share on Exelons common stock for the second quarter of 2006. The dividend is payable on June 10, 2006, to shareholders of record of Exelon at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on May 15, 2006. The Board of Directors of Exelon has also declared an additional dividend payable within 30 days after closing of the Merger if the Merger closes after February 15, 2006 and on or before May 15, 2006. The dividend will be pro rated, with shareholders receiving $0.00449 per share per day from February 15, 2006 to the closing of the Merger. This pro rata dividend is equivalent to $0.40 per share for the full quarter. If the Merger is not closed on or before May 15, 2006, the Board of Directors of Exelon expects to declare and pay a similar pro rata dividend for the period after May 15, 2006. The Board of Directors of Exelon also changed its policy for dividend record and payment dates that will take effect after the closing of the Merger. Currently, dividend record dates are the fifteenth day of the second month of the quarter, and payment dates are the tenth day of the third month of the quarter. After the closing of the Merger, when the dividend is increased as required by the Merger Agreement, the record date will be the eighth day of the third month of a quarter, and the payment date will be the last business day of the third month of a quarter. The Board expects that there will be another pro rated dividend for the period from the Merger closing date to the first regular record date under the new dividend schedule. This post closing pro rated dividend will be calculated at the increased dividend rate and will be paid on the first regular payment date under the new dividend schedule. The use of pro rated dividends is intended to keep shareholders whole with respect to their dividends. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. 73 Table of Contents For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 15,148 $ 14,060 $ 13,978 Operating income 2,724 3,499 2,409 3,280 3,406 Income from continuing operations $ 951 $ 1,870 $ 892 $ 1,690 $ 1,448 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 14 (29 ) (99 ) (20 ) (32 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 965 1,841 793 1,670 1,416 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (42 ) 23 112 (230 ) 12 Net income (a), (b) $ 923 $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 1,440 $ 1,428 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 1.40 $ 2.79 $ 1.36 $ 2.60 $ 2.24 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 (0.04 ) (0.15 ) (0.03 ) (0.05 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1.42 2.75 1.21 2.57 2.19 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (0.06 ) 0.03 0.17 (0.35 ) 0.02 Net income $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ 1.38 $ 2.22 $ 2.21 Dividends per common share $ 1.60 $ 1.26 $ 0.96 $ 0.88 $ 0.91 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 676 669 657 649 645 (a) Change between 2005 and 2004 is primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.2 billion in 2005. (b) Change between 2004 and 2003 is primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. December 31, in millions 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 4,637 $ 3,880 $ 4,524 $ 4,096 $ 3,707 Property, plant and equipment, net 21,981 21,482 20,630 17,957 14,665 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,386 4,790 5,226 5,546 5,774 Goodwill (a) 3,475 4,705 4,719 4,992 5,335 Other deferred debits and other assets 7,910 7,867 6,800 5,249 5,460 Total assets $ 42,389 $ 42,724 $ 41,899 $ 37,840 $ 34,941 Current liabilities $ 6,563 $ 4,836 $ 5,683 $ 5,845 $ 4,342 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 11,760 12,148 13,489 13,127 12,879 Regulatory liabilities 2,170 2,204 1,891 486 225 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 12,683 13,918 12,246 9,968 8,749 Minority interest 1 42 77 31 Preferred securities of subsidiaries (a) 87 87 87 595 613 Shareholders equity 9,125 9,489 8,503 7,742 8,102 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 42,389 $ 42,724 $ 41,899 $ 37,840 $ 34,941 (a) Change between 2005 and 2004 is primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.2 billion in 2005. (b) Due to the adoptions of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of ComEd and PECO were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003. 74 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ 6,206 Operating income (loss) (12 ) 1,617 1,567 1,766 1,594 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ (676 ) $ 676 $ 702 $ 790 $ 607 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (9 ) 5 Net income (loss) (a) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ 707 $ 790 $ 607 December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,024 $ 1,196 $ 1,313 $ 1,049 $ 1,025 Property, plant and equipment, net 9,906 9,463 9,096 8,689 8,243 Goodwill, net (a) 3,475 4,705 4,719 4,916 4,902 Other deferred debits and other assets 2,806 2,077 2,837 1,662 1,682 Total assets $ 17,211 $ 17,441 $ 17,965 $ 16,316 $ 15,852 Current liabilities $ 2,308 $ 1,764 $ 1,557 $ 2,023 $ 1,797 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (b) 3,541 4,282 5,887 5,268 5,850 Regulatory liabilities 2,170 2,204 1,891 486 225 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,796 2,451 2,288 2,451 2,568 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (b) 330 329 Shareholders equity 6,396 6,740 6,342 5,758 5,083 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 17,211 $ 17,441 $ 17,965 $ 16,316 $ 15,852 (a) Change between 2005 and 2004 is primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.2 billion in 2005. (b) Due to the adoption of FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts as of December 31, 2003. 75 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 4,388 $ 4,333 $ 3,965 Operating income 1,049 1,014 1,056 1,093 999 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 520 $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 $ 425 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (3 ) Net income $ 517 $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 $ 425 Net income on common stock $ 513 $ 452 $ 468 $ 478 $ 415 December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 795 $ 727 $ 659 $ 898 $ 785 Property, plant and equipment, net 4,471 4,329 4,256 4,159 4,039 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,386 4,790 5,226 5,546 5,774 Other deferred debits and other assets 366 241 232 88 112 Total assets $ 10,018 $ 10,087 $ 10,373 $ 10,691 $ 10,710 Current liabilities $ 936 $ 748 $ 676 $ 1,509 $ 1,307 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (a) 4,143 4,628 5,239 4,951 5,438 Deferred credits and other liabilities 3,235 3,313 3,442 3,342 3,358 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (a) 128 128 Mandatorily redeemable preferred stock 19 Shareholders equity 1,704 1,398 1,016 761 460 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 10,018 $ 10,087 $ 10,373 $ 10,691 $ 10,710 (a) Due to the adoptions of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003. 76 Table of Contents Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. The results of operations for Exelon Energy Company are not included in periods prior to 2004. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 6,826 Operating income (loss) 1,852 1,039 (115 ) 509 872 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 1,109 $ 657 $ (241 ) $ 387 $ 512 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (16 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,128 641 (241 ) 387 512 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (30 ) 32 108 13 12 Net income (loss) (a) $ 1,098 $ 673 $ (133 ) $ 400 $ 524 (a) Change between 2004 and 2003 is primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,040 $ 2,321 $ 2,438 $ 1,805 $ 1,435 Property, plant and equipment, net 7,464 7,536 7,106 4,698 2,003 Deferred debits and other assets 7,220 6,581 5,105 4,402 4,700 Total assets $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 $ 8,138 Current liabilities $ 3,400 $ 2,416 $ 3,553 $ 2,594 $ 1,097 Long term debt 1,788 2,583 1,649 2,132 1,021 Deferred credits and other liabilities 8,554 8,356 6,488 3,226 3,212 Minority interest 2 44 3 54 Members equity 3,980 3,039 2,956 2,899 2,808 Total liabilities and members equity $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 $ 8,138 77 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon General Exelon is a public utility holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following business segments: ComEd, whose business includes the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose businesses include the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Generation, which consists principally of the electric generating facilities and wholesale energy marketing operations of Generation, the competitive retail sales business of Exelon Energy Company and certain other generation projects. See Note 22 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Through 2004, Exelon identified three operating segments Energy Delivery (ComEd and PECO), Generation and Enterprises. Exelon sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises in 2004 and 2003. As such, Exelon ceased reporting Enterprises as a segment as of January 1, 2005. Additionally, as of the fourth quarter of 2005, Exelon reconsidered its previous presentation of segments and concluded that it would have been more appropriate to treat ComEd and PECO as separate operating segments for prior periods as opposed to the single Energy Delivery operating segment. If ComEd and PECO would have previously been identified as separate operating segments, Exelon concluded that ComEd and PECO, nonetheless, would have been aggregated due to their similar economic characteristics, as a single reportable segment for segment reporting purposes. This aggregation would have resulted in substantially the same presentation in previously filed reports. As a result of developments during the fourth quarter of 2005, Exelon has concluded that it can no longer aggregate ComEd and PECO as a single reportable segment. These developments include the approaching end of the regulatory transition period and rate freeze in Illinois, the opposition to rate increases expressed by the Attorney General of the State of Illinois, changes in the ComEd Board of Directors and the selection of executive officers of ComEd with no responsibilities outside of ComEd. For more information regarding ComEds regulatory issues, see ComEd Retail Electric Services below and Note 4 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, ComEd and PECO are no longer reported as a combined Energy Delivery reportable segment. As such, Exelon now presents three reportable segments: ComEd, PECO and Generation. Prior period presentation has been adjusted for comparative purposes. Exelons corporate operations, through its business services subsidiary, BSC, provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology, supply management and corporate governance services. ComEd and PECO also receive additional services from BSC, including planning and engineering of delivery systems, management of construction, operation and maintenance of the transmission and delivery systems, and management of other support services. Generation receives additional services from BSC for inventory and information technology support and management of other support services. These costs are allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. 78 Table of Contents Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $923 million in 2005 as compared to $1,864 million in 2004 and diluted earnings per average common share were $1.36 for 2005 as compared to $2.78 for 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the following: a $1.2 billion impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill; losses for the cumulative effect of adopting FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (FIN 47); an increase to the reserve for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims; increased depreciation and amortization expense, including CTC amortization at PECO; the gain associated with the sale of Boston Generating recorded in 2004; a gain recorded in 2004 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle due to the adoption of FIN 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46 R); and a gain recorded in 2004 from the reimbursement of costs incurred prior to 2004 under a settlement with DOE related to spent nuclear fuel storage. The factors driving the overall decrease in net income above were partially offset by the following: higher margins on Generations wholesale market sales; favorable weather conditions in Exelons service territories; reduced severance and severance related charges; lower pension expense as a result of a discretionary pension contribution made in the first quarter of 2005; and losses associated with 2004 debt retirements at ComEd. Investment Strategy. In 2005, Exelon continued to follow a disciplined approach in investing to maximize earnings and cash flows from its assets and businesses, while selling those investments that do not meet its strategic goals. Highlights from 2005 include the following: Proposed Merger with PSEG On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into a Merger Agreement with PSEG, and shareholders of both companies approved the transaction in July 2005. The Merger also received approval from regulatory agencies in New York, Texas and Connecticut, in addition to the FERC approval in June 2005. On September 13, 2005, Exelon announced that PECO had reached a partial settlement, subject to approval, with some but not all of the parties related to the Pennsylvania review of the Merger. The PAPUC approved the settlement and the Merger on January 27, 2006. In New Jersey, hearings for the Merger review have been extended; they are expected to conclude on March 27, 2006. Settlement discussions began in December 2005 and are expected to resume after the hearings conclude. Scheduled dates for the Administrative Law Judges (ALJ) initial decision and final order from the NJBPU also may be extended, but no firm dates have been set. 79 Table of Contents Other remaining regulatory reviews include the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). Exelon will attempt to reach a settlement that satisfactorily resolves issues and allows the Merger to close in the second quarter of 2006. However, in the absence of an earlier settlement, Exelon expects that the closing of the Merger will occur in the third quarter of 2006. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Sithe On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Specifically, subsidiaries of Generation closed on the acquisition of Reservoir Capital Groups 50% interest in Sithe and the sale of 100% of Sithe to Dynegy. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale of Generations investment in Sithe. Financing Activities. During 2005, Exelon met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources, including capital markets, and through bank borrowings. On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement to fund pension contributions in the first quarter of 2005. On April 1, 2005, Exelon entered into a $500 million term loan agreement that was subsequently fully borrowed to reduce the $2 billion term loan referenced above. On June 9, 2005, Exelon issued and sold $1.7 billion of senior debt securities pursuant to its senior debt indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, consisting of $400 million of 4.45% senior notes due 2010, $800 million of 4.90% senior notes due 2015 and $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2035. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay the $1.5 billion in remaining principal due on the $2 billion term loan agreement and $200 million of the $500 million term loan agreement. See Notes 10 and 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Regulatory Developments Illinois. As discussed in ITEM 1. Business and Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power by ComEd for the time period after 2006. To mitigate the impact on its residential customers of transitioning to this process, ComEd has offered to develop a cap and deferral proposal to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers, some or all of which could require regulatory or legislative approval to implement. Several parties have indicated that they will petition the ICC for rehearing and will challenge the ICC decision in court. ComEd has also petitioned for rehearing of the ICC decision on certain issues, but that petition was denied by the ICC on February 8, 2006. It is also possible that interested parties could introduce legislation in Illinois in attempt to modify the procurement process or the rates that ComEd may charge consumers for the power ComEd purchases to meet the needs of consumers. The Illinois General Assembly has held hearings concerning generation procurement after 2006, and it may take action on this issue. ComEd also has filed and has pending a regulatory proceeding before the ICC, referred to as the Rate Case. The Rate Case seeks, among other things, to allocate the costs of delivering electricity and to adjust ComEds rates for delivering electricity effective January 2, 2007. The Rate Case also proposes procedures under which ComEd will allocate the costs from the Procurement Case among ComEd customers. Several intervenors in the Rate Case, including the ICC staff and the Illinois Attorney General, have suggested, and provided testimony, that ComEds rates should actually be reduced. The results of the Rate Case are not expected to be known until the third quarter of 2006. Market Based Rates Filing. On July 5, 2005, the FERC approved Generations continued authority to charge market based rates for wholesale sales of electricity, including to its affiliates ComEd and PECO. In the same order, the FERC stated that Generation had failed to address the affiliate abuse issue of the FERCs market based rate eligibility test. On August 4, 2005, Generation filed a Petition for Rehearing asking the FERC to rescind that part of its market based rate order. Generation expects the FERC to make a decision in 2006. If the FERC were to suspend Generations market based rate 80 Table of Contents authority, Generation would be required to supply and implement a plan for mitigation of market power. FERCs default mitigation would require Generation to file and obtain FERC acceptance of cost based rate schedules or schedules tied to a public index. In addition, the loss of market based rate authority would subject Generation to the accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on public utilities with cost based rate schedules. Repeal of PUHCA. Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act, PUHCA was repealed effective February 8, 2006. Under the Energy Policy Act, FERC obtained additional jurisdiction for merger review and for the review of affiliate transactions, and FERCs financing jurisdiction resumed to the extent that it was preempted by PUHCA. Exelon continues to review the effects of the Energy Policy Act and FERCs proposed rules with respect to future financing authority for its subsidiaries. To the extent that the SECs jurisdiction under PUHCA preempted certain aspects of state regulation, the repeal of PUHCA permits the states in which Exelon and its subsidiaries operate to adopt additional regulations if they so choose, absent any preemption by the FERC. See ITEM 1. Business and Note 4 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on other regulatory matters. Outlook for 2006 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: Exelon expects the Merger will result in synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Although Exelon expects to achieve these anticipated benefits of the Merger, achieving them, including synergies, is subject to a number of uncertainties. See ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Certain governmental officials and consumer advocacy groups claim that ComEds retail rates for electricity should not be based solely on its cost to procure electricity and capacity in the wholesale market. Additionally, certain parties to ComEds Rate Case proceeding have indicated ComEds rates for delivering energy should be reduced and not increased. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell electricity beginning in 2007 is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, or if ComEd is unable to recover its costs and investment through the Rate Case, there may be material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. However, the ICCs unanimous approval of the reverse auction process, barring any successful appeals or change in law, should provide ComEd with stability and greater certainty that it will be able to procure energy and pass through the costs of that energy to ComEds customers beginning in 2007 through a transparent market mechanism in the reverse auction process. The results of the Rate Case should be known during the third quarter of 2006. As of December 31, 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have not significantly impacted the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. However, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita are expected to impact the already increasing costs of certain supplies and the lead time to order these supplies in 2006. As a result, costs of such supplies could be $30 million to $40 million higher in 2006 compared to 2005, impacting the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries, has investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45k (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45k contains a provision under which credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. The estimated annual average price per barrel of oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. index (NYMEX) would have to exceed $59 and $61 in 2006 and 2007, respectively, for a 81 Table of Contents phase out to begin. In 2005, the estimated annual average price per barrel of $57 did not exceed the bottom of the phase out range of $58. As a result, Exelons interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities increased Exelons net income by $81 million during 2005. Based on the 2006 and 2007 NYMEX futures prices at December 31, 2005, Exelon estimates there will be a phase out of tax credits of 38% and 36% in 2006 and 2007, respectively. This would decrease Exelons net income as compared to 2005 by as much as $38 million and $36 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. These estimates can change significantly due to the volatility in oil prices. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Registrants Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Nuclear Decommissioning (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate the fair value of its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that fair value, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at a minimum of every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the estimated base year decommissioning costs, which are included in the decommissioning cost studies discussed above, through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost levels and various decommissioning timing scenarios. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 15% or minus 10% over the base cost scenario. The probabilities assigned to various timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals and the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposal. 82 Table of Contents Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation recorded with a corresponding change to the asset retirement cost (ARC) asset. However, if the ARO relates to retired units, which have no remaining useful life and, likewise, no existing ARC, the offset may be recorded in current period earnings. Changes in the assumptions could affect future updates to the decommissioning obligation. For example, the 20 year average cost escalation rates used in the latest ARO calculation were approximately 3% to 4%. A uniform increase in these escalation rates of 25 basis points would increase the total ARO recorded by Exelon by approximately 9% or more than $350 million. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on an ongoing basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Conditional ARO (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation adopted FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (FIN 47). FIN 47 clarified that a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a long lived asset whose timing and or method of settlement are conditional on a future event is within the scope of SFAS No. 143. Under FIN 47, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are required to record a conditional ARO at its estimated fair value if that fair value can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had liabilities of $236 million, $151 million, $20 million and $65 million, respectively, associated with their conditional AROs. The adoption of FIN 47 required the Registrants to update an existing inventory, originally created for the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and to determine which, if any, of the conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated. The ability to reasonably estimate a conditional ARO was a matter of management judgment, based upon managements ability to estimate a settlement date or range of settlement dates, a method or potential method of settlement and probabilities associated with the potential dates and methods of settlement of its conditional AROs. In determining whether their conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated, management considered the Registrants past practices, industry practices, managements intent and the estimated economic lives of the assets. The fair value of the conditional AROs was then estimated using an expected present value technique. Additionally, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assessed the likelihood of recovering these obligations from customers which led to the recognition of regulatory assets. Changes in managements assumptions regarding settlement dates, settlement methods, assigned probabilities or recovery mechanisms could have a material effect on the liabilities recorded by each Registrant at December 31, 2005 as well as the associated cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle recorded at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and the associated regulatory assets recorded at Exelon, ComEd and PECO. The liabilities associated with conditional AROs will be adjusted on an ongoing basis due to the passage of time, new laws and regulations and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimates of undiscounted cash flows. These adjustments could have a significant impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income of the Registrants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of FIN 47, see Notes 1 and 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 83 Table of Contents Asset Impairments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) As of December 31, 2004, Exelon and ComEd had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill, which related entirely to the goodwill recorded upon the acquisition of ComEd. Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires managements judgments, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. Exelon and ComEd performed their annual assessments of goodwill impairment as of November 1, 2005 and determined that goodwill was impaired by $1.2 billion. Exelon assesses goodwill impairment at its ComEd reporting unit; accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge at ComEd is fully reflected in Exelons results of operations. After reflecting the impairment, Exelon and ComEd have $3.5 billion of goodwill as of December 31, 2005. In the assessments, Exelon and ComEd estimated the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds purchase power agreement with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. Changes in assumptions regarding these variables or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of approximately 10% in ComEds expected discounted cash flows would result in additional impairment for both ComEd and Exelon of $1.2 billion. An additional impairment would require Exelon and ComEd to further reduce both goodwill and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power and costs of fuel. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Investments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had approximately $6,398 million, $75 million, $95 million and $5,705 million, respectively, of investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2005. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation consider investments to be impaired when a decline in fair value below cost is judged to be other than temporary. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, they evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, as 84 Table of Contents well as their intent and ability to hold the investment. The Registrants may also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee when reviewing an investment for impairment. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the investment and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, depreciation estimates are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of property, plant and equipment recorded and the depreciation charged to the financial statements. Historically, Generation has extended the estimated service lives of certain nuclear fuel generating facilities based upon Generations intent to apply for license renewals for these facilities. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC. The impact of the new rates, based on the study, which will be effective March 2006, is not expected to be material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to essentially all ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC employees and certain Enterprises employees. See Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for Exelons defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon utilizes assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increases and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.00% in 2005, 2004 and 2003. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 8.30% in 2005 compared to a range of 8.33% to 8.35% in 2004 and 8.40% for 2003. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The discount rate for determining the plan obligations was 5.60%, 5.75% and 6.25% at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The discount rates at December 31, 2004 and 2003 were selected by reference to the Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index adjusted to reflect the duration of expected future cash flows for pension and other postretirement welfare benefit payments. At 85 Table of Contents December 31, 2005, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of more than 400 Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement welfare benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement welfare benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation atDecember 31, 2005 Impact onPension Liability atDecember 31, 2005 Impact on 2006 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $683 $548 $50 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 45 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligationat December 31, 2005 Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability atDecember 31, 2005 Impact on 2006PostretirementBenefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 208 $ $ 24 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 6 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons postretirement benefit plans. To estimate the 2005 cost, Exelon assumed a health care cost trend rate of 9%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 5% in 2010, compared to the 2004 assumption of 10%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 4.5% in 2011. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates in 2005 would have had the following effects (dollars in millions): Effect of a one percentage point increase in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ 41 on postretirement benefit obligation $ 399 Effect of a one percentage point decrease in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ (30 ) on postretirement benefit obligation $ (297 ) The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during Exelons annual review process and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. In 2005, Exelon incurred approximately $221 million in costs associated with its pension and postretirement benefit plans. The decrease in Exelons pension and postretirement benefit costs in 2005 compared to 2004 and 2003 was primarily attributable to discretionary pension contributions of $2 billion made during the first quarter of 2005. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71), which 86 Table of Contents requires Exelon, ComEd and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements as a one time extraordinary item and through impacts on continuing operations. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding regulatory issues. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. As of December 31, 2005, Exelon and PECO had recorded $4.4 billion of net regulatory assets within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2005, Exelon and ComEd had recorded $2.2 billion of net regulatory liabilities within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 21 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction where they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. The electric businesses of both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Because the current rates include the recovery and settlement of existing regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow Exelon, ComEd and PECO to earn a reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the Federal level and in the states where ComEd and PECO do business but is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off and recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants enter into derivatives to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation utilizes derivatives with respect to energy transactions to manage the utilization of its available generating capability and provisions of wholesale energy to its affiliates. Generation also utilizes energy option contracts and energy financial swap arrangements to limit the market price risk associated with forward energy commodity contracts. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for trading purposes. All of the Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). 87 Table of Contents The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133). Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Derivatives recorded at fair value on the balance sheet are presented as current or noncurrent mark to market derivative assets or liabilities. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction occurs. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon the assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery of the underlying item. This assessment is based primarily on internal models that forecast customer demand for electricity and gas supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. If it was determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchases or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings. Energy Contracts. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants use external dealer prices or internal valuation models that utilize assumptions of available market pricing curves. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the 88 Table of Contents Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties have a significant effect on the liabilities and expenses in their financial statements. Taxation The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. Other than as noted below, the Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2005 reflect the probable expected outcome of pending tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, and SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Environmental Costs As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $128 million, $54 million, $47 million and $27 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where timing and costs of expenditures can be reliably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts represent $89 million, $48 million, and $41 million of the total accrued for Exelon, ComEd, and PECO, respectively. Generation has no accrued environmental investigation and remediation costs recorded on a discounted basis. Where timing and amounts cannot be reliably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $39 million, $6 million, $6 million and $27 million, respectively, of the total accrued liabilities for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology, regulations or the requirements of local governmental authorities. Asbestos Personal Injury Claims As of December 31, 2005, Exelon and Generation have approximately $50 million reserved in total for asbestos related bodily injury claims. Approximately $9 million of this amount relates to 120 open claims presented to Generation as of December 31, 2005, while the remaining $41 million of the reserve is for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030 based on actuarial assumptions and analysis. Exelons and Generations management each determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims beyond 2030 based on the historical claims data available and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating the future losses, management and the actuaries made various assumptions, including but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that related to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelon plans to obtain annual updates of the estimate of future losses. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon historical experience and third party actuarial studies. Projecting 89 Table of Contents future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. Management cautions, however, that these estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Severance Accounting (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with the Registrants and compensation level. The Registrants accrue severance benefits that are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in estimating severance charges is the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. The Registrants base their estimates on their current plans and ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate their businesses. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation recorded severance charges (benefits) of $(14) million, $(9) million, $1 million and $(4) million, respectively, in 2005, and severance charges of $32 million, $10 million, $3 million and $2 million, respectively, in 2004, related to personnel reductions. The Registrants may incur further severance costs if they identify additional positions to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of ComEds, PECOs and Exelon Energys energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable of ComEd, PECO and Generation included estimates of $287 million, $175 million and $89 million, respectively, for unbilled revenue as of December 31, 2005 as a result of unread meters at ComEd, PECO and Exelon Energy. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding Exelon Energys, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Customer accounts receivable of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2005 include unbilled energy revenues of $435 million related to unbilled energy sales of Generation. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Generations revenue from service agreements, such as the nuclear Operating Service Agreement with PSEG Nuclear, is dependent upon when the services are rendered. Service agreements representing a cost recovery arrangement are presented gross within revenues for the amounts due from the party receiving the service, and the costs associated with providing the service are presented within operating and maintenance expenses. 90 Table of Contents Results of Operations (Dollars in millions except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 1,224 Purchased power and fuel expense 5,646 4,929 (717 ) Operating and maintenance expense 3,718 3,700 (18 ) Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,334 1,295 (39 ) Operating income 2,724 3,499 (775 ) Other income and deductions (829 ) (922 ) 93 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,895 2,577 (682 ) Income taxes 944 713 (231 ) Income from continuing operations 951 1,870 (919 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 14 (29 ) 43 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 965 1,841 (876 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 23 (65 ) Net income 923 1,864 (941 ) Diluted earnings per share $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ (1.42 ) Net Income. Net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1,207 million associated with ComEds goodwill and losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47, partially offset by higher realized prices on market sales at Generation and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoption of FIN 46 R. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to increased revenues at ComEd and PECO and increased revenues from non affiliates at Generation. The increase in revenues at ComEd and PECO was primarily due to favorable weather conditions, an increase in the number of customers choosing ComEd or PECO as their electric supplier and higher transmission revenues, partially offset by decreased CTC collections at ComEd. The increase in revenues from non affiliates at Generation was primarily due to higher prices on energy sold in the market, partially offset by an increase in the percentage of energy produced and sold to ComEd and PECO and the sale of Boston Generating in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased primarily due to overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices, partially offset by the decrease in fuel expense due to the sale of Boston Generating in 2004, favorable mark to market adjustments related to non trading activities and the expiration of the purchase power agreement with Midwest Generation in 2004. Purchased power represented 22% of Generations total supply in 2005 compared to 24% in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. 91 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a gain recorded in 2004 related to the DOE Settlement, an increase to the reserve for the estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims that was recorded in 2005, higher costs associated with planned nuclear refueling outages, and increased costs related to an operating agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc. (formerly Sithe International, Inc.), partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and decreased severance and benefit expense. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd recorded a $1,207 million charge during 2005 to impair its goodwill. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service, additional amortization of the CTC at PECO and accelerated amortization of PECOs current customer information and billing system, partially offset by the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units in 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, operating and maintenance expense, impairment of goodwill and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was the result of increased taxes other than income, partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and reduced property tax expense. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects a 2004 charge at ComEd associated with the accelerated retirement of debt and the related reduction in interest expense from these debt retirements and increased realized gains related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, partially offset by increased interest expense on short term debt at Exelon, increased losses from Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities and an $85 million gain recorded in 2004 on the sale of Boston Generating. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 50% for 2005 compared to 28% for 2004. Exclusive of the goodwill impairment charge, the effective income tax rate for 2005 was 30%. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises and AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Income. See Notes 2 and 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe, certain Enterprises businesses and AllEnergy as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe. The results of Sithe and AllEnergy are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations increased by $43 million from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2005 and 2004 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ (676 ) $ 676 $ (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Generation 1,109 657 452 Other (a) (2 ) 82 (84 ) Total $ 951 $ 1,870 $ (919 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ (676 ) $ 676 $ (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Generation 1,128 641 487 Corporate (a) (7 ) 69 (76 ) Total $ 965 $ 1,841 $ (876 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ (685 ) $ 676 $ (1,361 ) PECO 517 455 62 Generation 1,098 673 425 Corporate (7 ) 60 (67 ) Total $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 93 Table of Contents Results of OperationsComEd 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 Operating expenses Purchased power 3,520 2,588 (932 ) Operating and maintenance 833 897 64 Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 413 410 (3 ) Taxes other than income 303 291 (12 ) Total operating expense 6,276 4,186 (2,090 ) Operating income (loss) (12 ) 1,617 (1,629 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (295 ) (369 ) 74 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) (19 ) 5 Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) 130 Other, net 8 34 (26 ) Total other income and deductions (301 ) (484 ) 183 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (313 ) 1,133 (1,446 ) Income taxes 363 457 94 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) (9 ) Net income (loss) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ (1,361 ) Net Loss. ComEds net loss in 2005 was driven by the impairment of goodwill and higher purchased power expense, partially offset by higher operating revenues due to favorable weather and due to the impacts of a 2004 charge associated with the accelerated retirement of long term debt and lower interest expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Weather $ 415 Customer choice 81 Rate changes and mix (66 ) Volume (3 ) Other (9 ) Retail revenue 418 PJM transmission 58 T&O / SECA rates (28 ) Other 13 Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 43 Increase in operating revenues $ 461 94 Table of Contents Weather. Revenues were higher by $415 million due to favorable weather conditions in 2005 compared to 2004. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather in non summer months reduces demand. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 90% and 1% higher, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. For 2005 and 2004, 33% and 35% of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by alternative electric suppliers or under the Power Purchase Option (PPO). All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2005, one alternative supplier was approved to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, no residential customers have selected this alternative supplier. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 19,310 20,939 Percentage of total retail deliveries 21 % 24 % Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 21,276 22,161 Percentage of total retail customers (b ) (b ) Volume (GWhs) (a) 30,905 30,426 Percentage of total retail deliveries 33 % 35 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Rate changes and mix. The change is primarily due to the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component of the CTC calculation which resulted in a decrease of $64 million to $105 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. As a result of increasing mitigation factors and changes in energy prices, ComEd anticipates that CTC revenues will range from $35 million to $50 million in 2006. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues increased by $58 million in 2005 due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O / SECA rates. Revenues decreased $28 million as a result of the elimination of T&O rates in accordance with FERC orders that became effective December 1, 2004. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd, and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power Expense below. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. 95 Table of Contents Purchased Power Expense. The changes in purchased power expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Prices $ 606 Weather 200 Customer choice 65 PJM 63 Volume 7 T&O collections / SECA rates (15 ) Other 6 Increase in purchased power expense $ 932 Prices. Purchased power increased due to higher prices associated with ComEds PPA with Generation of $497 million, and ancillary services of $109 million from PJM. In 2000, ComEd and Generation entered into a PPA that fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2004 based upon the then current market prices. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement as of April 30, 2004 with Generation, starting in January 1, 2005, ComEd began paying higher prices for its purchased power from Generation and ceased to procure its ancillary services from Generation. This agreement fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2006 based upon the current market prices as of April 30, 2004. Weather. The $200 million increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory, which increased the amount of electricity sold. Customer choice. The $65 million increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to fewer ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. PJM. The $63 million increase reflects higher transmission and purchased power expense of $57 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM and PJM administrative fees that increased by $6 million over 2004 fees. T&O Collections / SECA rates. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O rates for transmission service scheduled out of or across ComEds transmission system. Rates collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received by ComEd as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. ComEds purchased power expense increased $14 million due to ComEd no longer collecting T&O revenues in 2005. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005, ComEd recorded SECA collections net of SECA charges of $29 million. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O /SECA rates. 96 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses (a) $ (47 ) Employee fringe benefits (b) (18 ) Pension expense and deferred compensation (c) (15 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts (13 ) Injuries and damages (2 ) Corporate allocations (b) 15 Storm costs 14 Contractors 12 PSEG merger integration costs 8 Other (18 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (64 ) (a) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other postretirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 as compared to 2004. (b) Excludes severance related expenses and pension expense. Reflects fewer employees compared to prior year and a reduction in 2005 related to estimated medical plan fees. A portion of the employee reduction is offset by an increase in corporate allocations. (c) Pension expense in 2005 is lower than in 2004 due in large part to significant pension plan contributions made in the first quarter of 2005. See Note 13 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time (November 1). The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds purchase power agreement with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd has approximately $3.5 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2005. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense $ 17 Other amortization expense (14 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 3 The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. The decrease in other amortization expense was primarily due to completing the amortization of one of ComEds software packages in 2004. 97 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 13 Tax refund (b) 6 Other (7 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 12 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) During 2004, a refund was received for Illinois electricity distribution taxes. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense of $74 million for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to long term debt retirements and prepayments in 2004 pursuant to Exelons accelerated liability management plan and scheduled payments on long term debt owed to the ComEd Funding Trust. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt. In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $768 million of long term debt, of which $618 million was retired during the third quarter of 2004. During 2004, ComEd recorded a charge of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of this charge included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Loss on settlement of cash flow swaps (a) $ (15 ) Interest income on long term receivable from UII, LLC (b) (16 ) Other 5 Decrease in other, net $ (26 ) (a) See Note 14 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) The decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC resulted from this receivable being repaid in late 2004. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was (116.0)% and 40.3% for 2005 and 2004, respectively. Exclusive of the goodwill impairment charge, the effective rate for 2005 was 40.6%. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 12 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 98 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 30,042 26,463 3,579 13.5 % Small commercial & industrial 21,378 21,662 (284 ) (1.3 %) Large commercial & industrial 7,904 6,913 991 14.3 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,133 1,893 240 12.7 % Total full service 61,457 56,931 4,526 7.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 5,591 4,110 1,481 36.0 % Large commercial & industrial 6,004 5,377 627 11.7 % 11,595 9,487 2,108 22.2 % Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,677 6,305 (628 ) (10.0 %) Large commercial & industrial 13,633 14,634 (1,001 ) (6.8 %) 19,310 20,939 (1,629 ) (7.8 %) Total PPO and delivery only 30,905 30,426 479 1.6 % Total retail deliveries 92,362 87,357 5,005 5.7 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 99 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,584 $ 2,295 $ 289 12.6 % Small commercial & industrial 1,671 1,649 22 1.3 % Large commercial & industrial 408 380 28 7.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 132 126 6 4.8 % Total full service 4,795 4,450 345 7.8 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 385 274 111 40.5 % Large commercial & industrial 345 304 41 13.5 % 730 578 152 26.3 % Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 95 128 (33 ) (25.8 %) Large commercial & industrial 156 204 (48 ) (23.5 %) 251 332 (81 ) (24.4 %) Total PPO and delivery only 981 910 71 7.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,776 5,360 416 7.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 488 443 45 10.2 % Total operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 7.9 % (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. 100 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 423 Operating expenses Purchased power 2,515 2,172 (343 ) Operating and maintenance 549 547 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 566 518 (48 ) Taxes other than income 231 236 5 Total operating expense 3,861 3,473 (388 ) Operating income 1,049 1,014 35 Other income and deductions Interest expense (280 ) (303 ) 23 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) (25 ) 9 Other, net 14 18 (4 ) Total other income and deductions (282 ) (310 ) 28 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 767 704 63 Income taxes 247 249 2 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 520 455 65 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) (3 ) Net income 517 455 62 Preferred stock dividends 4 3 (1 ) Net income on common stock $ 513 $ 452 $ 61 Net Income. PECOs net income in 2005 increased primarily as a result of higher revenues, net of related purchased power expense, due to favorable weather and lower interest expense due to the scheduled retirement of debt owed to PETT, partially offset by higher CTC amortization. Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Rate changes and mix $ 72 $ 90 $ 162 Customer choice 118 118 Volume 101 (21 ) 80 Weather 54 10 64 Retail revenue 345 79 424 T&O / SECA rates 3 3 PJM transmission (3 ) (3 ) Other 9 (10 ) (1 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 9 (10 ) (1 ) Increase in operating revenues $ 354 $ 69 $ 423 101 Table of Contents Rate changes and mix. The increase in electric revenues at PECO attributable to rate changes and mix resulted from increased residential sales, which are billed at higher average rates relative to other customer classes. In addition, rates were higher in 2005 for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were higher in 2005 relative to 2004. The increase in gas revenues was due to increases in rates through PAPUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2004, March 1, 2005, June 1, 2005, September 1, 2005 and December 1, 2005. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2005 was 12% higher than the average rate for 2004. Customer choice. For 2005 and 2004, 5% and 12%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by alternative electric suppliers. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. Operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Number of customers at period end 44,500 101,500 Percentage of total retail customers 3 % 7 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 2,094 4,605 Percentage of total retail deliveries 5 % 12 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice was primarily related to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. This action followed the assignment of approximately 194,000 residential customers to alternative electric suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PAPUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. In 2005, additional customers returned to PECO as their energy supplier primarily as a result of two alternative energy suppliers exiting the market. Volume. The increase in electric revenues was primarily as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were positively affected by favorable weather conditions at PECO in 2005 compared to 2004. In the PECO service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 21% and 2% higher, respectively, than the prior year. T&O / SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power and Fuel Expense below. The elimination of T&O revenues and inclusion of SECA revenues had a minimal 102 Table of Contents impact on PECO as T&O revenues recognized in the past were not material and SECA revenues currently being recognized also are not material. See Note 2 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. Other wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. Electric revenues increased $9 million primarily due to increased wholesale sales, and gas revenues decreased $10 million primarily due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Prices $ 83 $ 90 $ 173 Customer choice 118 118 Weather 21 7 28 Volume 32 (15 ) 17 PJM transmission 11 11 SECA rates 9 9 Other (13 ) (13 ) Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 274 $ 69 $ 343 Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Weather. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to serving the increased demand due to favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory. Volume. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was due primarily to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005 and 2004, PECO recorded SECA charges of $10 million and $1 million, respectively. See Note 2 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O /SECA rates. Other. The decrease in gas fuel expense of $13 million was associated with decreased off system sales. 103 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Contractors (a) $ 8 Storm costs 7 Implementation of new customer information and billing system 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Severance related expenses (b) (14 ) Injuries and damages (6 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) The increase was primarily due to increases in vegetation management services compared to the prior year at PECO. (b) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other post retirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 compared to 2004. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization $ 37 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system 13 Depreciation expense 3 Other amortization expense (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 48 PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the pending merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system requires the accelerated amortization of PECOs current system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $10 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. If additional system changes are approved, additional accelerated depreciation may be required. The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Reduction in capital stock tax accrual in 2005 (a) $ (17 ) Reduction in real estate tax accrual in 2005 (b) (6 ) Taxes on utility revenues (c) 24 Other (6 ) Decrease in taxes other than income $ (5 ) 104 Table of Contents (a) Represents a reduction in 2005 of prior year capital stock tax accruals as a result of a favorable decision from the Pennsylvania Board of Finance and Revenue. (b) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in March 2005 following settlements between PECO and various taxing authorities related to prior year tax assessments. See Note 15 of PECOs Notes to the Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense at PECO of $23 million for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to scheduled payments on long term debt owed to PETT. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts of PECO due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 32.2% for 2005 compared to 35.4% for 2004. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to a state income tax benefit recorded as a result of the favorable settlement of a 2000 Pennsylvania corporate net income tax audit. See Note 8 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 10 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 13,135 10,349 2,786 26.9 % Small commercial & industrial 7,263 6,728 535 8.0 % Large commercial & industrial 15,205 14,908 297 2.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 962 914 48 5.3 % Total full service 36,565 32,899 3,666 11.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 334 2,158 (1,824 ) (84.5 %) Small commercial & industrial 1,257 1,687 (430 ) (25.5 %) Large commercial & industrial 503 760 (257 ) (33.8 %) Total delivery only 2,094 4,605 (2,511 ) (54.5 %) Total retail deliveries 38,659 37,504 1,155 3.1 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 105 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,705 $ 1,317 $ 388 29.5 % Small commercial & industrial 818 756 62 8.2 % Large commercial & industrial 1,173 1,113 60 5.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 84 80 4 5.0 % Total full service 3,780 3,266 514 15.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 25 164 (139 ) (84.8 %) Small commercial & industrial 63 86 (23 ) (26.7 %) Large commercial & industrial 13 20 (7 ) (35.0 %) Total delivery only 101 270 (169 ) (62.6 %) Total electric retail revenues 3,881 3,536 345 9.8 % Miscellaneous revenue (c) 212 203 9 4.4 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,093 $ 3,739 $ 354 9.5 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,751 59,949 (198 ) (0.3 %) Transportation 25,310 27,148 (1,838 ) (6.8 %) Total 85,061 87,097 (2,036 ) (2.3 %) Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 783 $ 702 $ 81 11.5 % Transportation 16 18 (2 ) (11.1 %) Resales and other 18 28 (10 ) (35.7 %) Total gas revenue $ 817 $ 748 $ 69 9.2 % 106 Table of Contents Results of Operations Generation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 Operating expenses Purchased power 2,569 2,307 (262 ) Fuel 1,913 1,704 (209 ) Operating and maintenance 2,288 2,201 (87 ) Depreciation and amortization 254 286 32 Taxes other than income 170 166 (4 ) Total operating expenses 7,194 6,664 (530 ) Operating income 1,852 1,039 813 Other income and deductions Interest expense (128 ) (103 ) (25 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (1 ) (14 ) 13 Other, net 95 130 (35 ) Total other income and deductions (34 ) 13 (47 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,818 1,052 766 Income taxes 709 401 (308 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 1,109 651 458 Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 1,109 657 452 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (45 ) 45 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 24 24 Income taxes 5 (29 ) (34 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (16 ) 35 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,128 641 487 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 32 (62 ) Net income $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 Net Income. Generations net income in 2005 increased $425 million as compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and interest expense. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased $872 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. This increase was driven by the contractual increase in prices associated with Generations power sales agreement with ComEd and higher average margins on wholesale market sales as higher spot market prices more than compensated for higher fuel prices and the impact of higher nuclear generation. 107 Table of Contents Operating Revenues. For 2005 and 2004, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,775 $ 3,749 $ 1,026 27.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,341 3,227 114 3.5 % Total energy sales revenue 8,116 6,976 1,140 16.3 % Retail gas sales 613 448 165 36.8 % Trading portfolio 17 17 n.m. Other revenue (a) 300 279 21 7.5 % Total revenue $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 17.4 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. n.m. Not meaningful Sales (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 121,961 110,465 11,496 10.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 72,376 92,134 (19,758 ) (21.4 )% Total sales 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% Trading volumes of 26,924 GWhs and 24,001 GWhs for 2005 and 2004, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates increased $1,026 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. The increase in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $635 million increase from overall higher prices associated with Generations PPA with ComEd and a $391 million increase from higher electric sales volume. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement as of April 30, 2004 with ComEd, effective January 1, 2005, Generation began receiving overall higher prices from ComEd for its purchased power. The higher sales volumes to ComEd and PECO resulted from favorable weather conditions in the summer and winter periods in the ComEd and PECO service territories and an increase in the number of customers returning from alternative electric suppliers in 2005 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 879 Volume (526 ) Sale of Boston Generating (239 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 114 (a) Sales to Boston Generating of $9 million were included in other revenue for 2004. Wholesale and retail sales increased $114 million due to an increase in market prices in 2005 compared to the prior year. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher fuel prices (e.g. oil and natural gas). The increase in price was partially offset by lower volumes of generation capacity sold to the market in 2005 as compared to 2004. Generation had less power to sell into the market as a result of higher demand for power sold to affiliates in 2005 and the expiration of its purchase power agreement with Midwest Generation in 2004. The remaining decrease in wholesale and retail sales of $239 million was due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. 108 Table of Contents Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales increased $165 million primarily due to significantly higher gas prices in the overall market. Trading portfolio. Trading portfolio income increased $17 million in 2005 compared to the prior year due to an increase in trading volumes. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Proprietary Trading Activities for further information. Other revenues. The increase in other revenues in 2005 was primarily due to an increase of $60 million associated with revenue from Generations operating services agreements with PSEG and Tamuin International, Inc. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $39 million related to lower fuel sales, a reduction in decommissioning revenue from ComEd and lower sales from tolling and gas management agreements. The increased revenue from the operating services agreements was substantially offset by a corresponding increase in Generations operating and maintenance expense. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 137,936 136,621 1,315 1.0 % Purchases non trading portfolio 42,623 48,968 (6,345 ) (13.0 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation (b) 13,778 17,010 (3,232 ) (19.0 )% Total supply 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants. (b) Fossil and hydroelectric generation decreased by 4,978 GWhs as a result of lower fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 845 Volume (93 ) Mark to market 9 Sale of Boston Generating (226 ) Other (64 ) Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 471 Price. The increase reflects overall higher market energy prices for purchased power and higher natural gas and oil prices in 2005 as compared to the prior year. The increase in unplanned outages in 2005 occurred during periods of higher energy prices, which caused Generation to purchase power in the market at high prices. Additionally, overall energy market conditions resulted in higher prices for raw materials (i.e., oil, gas and coal) used in the production of electricity. These factors contributed to an increase in the average purchase power costs of approximately $13 per MWh for 2005. Volume. The reduced volume in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market slightly offset by higher nuclear and fossil generation needed to meet ComEds and PECOs load requirements. Mark to market. Mark to market losses on hedging activities were $12 million for 2005 compared to losses of $3 million for 2004. 109 Table of Contents Boston Generating. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense associated with Boston Generating was due to the sale of the business in May 2004. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to lower transmission expense in 2005 as compared to the prior year resulting from the expansion of the PJM region due to new transmission owners joining PJM and reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM on May 1, 2004. Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2005 and 2004 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2005 2004 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 39.15 $ 33.94 15.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 46.16 35.03 31.8 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 41.76 34.43 21.3 % Average electric supply cost (b) excluding the trading portfolio $ 20.11 $ 17.60 14.3 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 21.65 $ 16.83 28.6 % (a) The increase in $/MWh is due to higher prices in 2005 associated with Generations PPA with ComEd. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: 2005 2004 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.03 $ 12.43 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 60.27 $ 47.11 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The nuclear fleet capacity factor was the same in 2005 as compared to 2004. Higher costs associated with the planned refuel outages and higher non outage operating costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2005 as compared to 2004. There were nine planned refueling outages and 25 non refueling outages in 2005 compared to nine planned refuel outages and 20 non refueling outages in 2004. During 2004, both Quad Cities units operated intermittently at Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. As of the third quarter of 2005, both of the Quad Cities units returned to EPU generation levels after extensive testing and load verification on new replacement steam dryers was completed. Near the end of 2005, the generation levels of both Quad Cities units were again reduced to pre EPU generation levels to address vibrationrelated equipment issues not directly related to the steam dryers. The units will be brought back to full EPU generation levels after all issues are addressed to ensure safe and reliable operations at the EPU output levels which is expected to occur in 2006. 110 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs $ 78 DOE Settlement in 2004 42 Tamuin International 44 Accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims 43 Nuclear operating services agreement 14 Pension, payroll and benefit costs (58 ) Boston Generating (62 ) Decommissioning related activity (38 ) Other 24 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 87 This net $87 million increase is attributable to the following: A $78 million increase in nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs due to an increase in nuclear maintenance costs of $44 million related to planned nuclear refueling outages for plants operated by Generation and the co owned Salem Generating Station, and increases in other nuclear operating and maintenance expenses of $34 million, primarily security and inflationary costs; A $42 million reimbursement in 2004 of costs incurred prior to 2004 for the storage of spent nuclear fuel associated with the DOE Settlement Agreement; A $44 million increase in expenses associated with Generations operating service agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc; The establishment of a $43 million liability in June 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (see further discussion in Note 17 to Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); and Costs of $14 million in 2005 associated with the Salem and Hope Creek Operating Services Agreement with PSEG, the reimbursement of which is included in other revenues. The increases in operating and maintenance expense described above were partially offset by lower payroll related expenses (a $58 million reduction), the elimination of $62 million in expenses at Boston Generating due to its sale in May 2004 and a $36 million reduction in the contractual obligation that Generation has to ComEd related to decommissioning obligations (which is included in the $38 million of decommissioning related activity in the table above). Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units of $36 million recorded in the third quarter of 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense as this asset was associated with retired nuclear units that do not have any remaining useful life. This decrease was partially offset by increased depreciation expense due to recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income for 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to a net increase in Generations reserves related to payroll taxes, sales and use taxes and other taxes other than income, partially offset by a reduction in taxes resulting from the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. 111 Table of Contents Other, Net. The decrease in other income for 2005 as compared to the prior year was primarily due to the $85 million gain ($52 million, net of taxes) on the disposal of Boston Generating recorded in May 2004, partially offset by gains of $36 million realized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 39.0% for 2005 compared to 38.1% for 2004. See Note 12 of Generations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Generation has sold or wound down substantially all components of AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe and results of AllEnergy have been presented as discontinued operations for 2005 within Generations Consolidated Statements of Income. See Notes 2 and 3 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithes and AllEnergys results of operations as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe as discontinued operations. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 14 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2003 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 14,133 $ 15,148 $ (1,015 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 4,929 6,194 1,265 Operating and maintenance expense 3,700 3,915 215 Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 1,295 1,115 (180 ) Operating income 3,499 2,409 1,090 Other income and deductions (922 ) (1,123 ) 201 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 2,577 1,286 1,291 Income taxes 713 389 (324 ) Income from continuing operations 1,870 892 978 Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (29 ) (99 ) 70 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,841 793 1,048 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 23 112 (89 ) Net income 1,864 905 959 Diluted earnings per share 2.78 1.38 1.40 Net Income. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 112 Table of Contents Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). Net income for 2003 reflects income of $112 million for the adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoptions of FIN 46 R, EITF 03 16 and SFAS No. 143. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased primarily due to decreased revenues at Enterprises due to the sale of InfraSource in 2003, the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and Generations adoption of EITF No. 03 11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and not Held for Trading Purposes as Defined in EITF Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 03 11) in the first quarter of 2004, which changed the presentation of certain power transactions and decreased 2004 operating revenues by $980 million. The adoption of EITF 03 11 had no impact on net income. Operating revenues were favorably affected by Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in 2003. Operating revenues were also favorably affected by increased volume growth and transmission revenues at ComEd and PECO collected from PJM, partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice initiatives. See further discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased primarily due to Generations adoption of EITF 03 11 during 2004 which resulted in a decrease in purchased power expense and fuel expense of $980 million. In addition, purchased power decreased due to Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in 2003, which was only partially offset by an increase in fuel expense, and the sale of Boston Generating in 2004. Purchased power represented 24% of Generations total supply in 2004 compared to 37% in 2003. Purchased power also decreased at ComEd and PECO due to unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice. See further discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. Generation recorded a $945 million charge (before income taxes) during 2003 to impair the long lived assets of Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense decreased primarily as a result of decreased expenses at InfraSource due to its sale in 2003 and decreased severance and severance related expenses, partially offset by increased expenses at Generation due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen. Operating and maintenance expense increased $65 million due to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service at ComEd, PECO and Generation, the acquisition of the remaining 50% in AmerGen in 2003 and the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units in 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense in 2004. The increase also resulted from increased amortization expense due to investments made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004 in synthetic fuel producing facilities and increased competitive transition charge amortization at PECO. These increases were partially offset by reduced depreciation and amortization expense at Enterprises due to the sale of InfraSource in 2003. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, the impairment of Boston Generatings long lived assets, operating and maintenance expense and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was primarily the result of increased taxes other than income in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due to the reduction of certain real estate tax accruals at PECO and Generation during 2003. 113 Table of Contents Other Income and Deductions. Other income and deductions in 2004 reflects interest expense of $828 million, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates of $154 million, debt retirement charges of $130 million (before income taxes) recorded at ComEd associated with an accelerated liability management plan, and an $85 million gain (before income taxes) on the 2004 sale of Boston Generating. Other income and deductions in 2003 reflects interest expense of $873 million and impairment charges of $255 million (before income taxes) related to Generations investment in Sithe. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased by $187 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in 2003, the deconsolidation of certain financing trusts during 2003 and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 28% for 2004 compared to 30% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003. Discontinued Operations. 2004 and 2003 discontinued operations consist of Sithes 2004 results (beginning April 1, 2004), certain qualifying components of Enterprises, and AllEnergy. AllEnergy is a business within Exelon Energy, which is a business within Generation. A discussion of the results of Sithe and AllEnergy is included in the Generation segment results discussion below. Enterprises after tax loss from discontinued operations of $78 million in 2003 and $13 million in 2004 decreased by $65 million primarily due to a 2004 gain on the sale of the Chicago operations of Thermal and a decrease in operating and maintenance expense of $401 million, partially offset by a decrease in revenues. At December 31, 2004, the remaining assets of the businesses associated with the former Enterprises segment totaled approximately $274 million in comparison to $697 million at December 31, 2003. Results of Operations by Business Segment Historically, Exelon had reported Enterprises as a segment. Exelon sold or unwound substantially all components of Enterprises in 2004 and 2003. As a result, Enterprises is no longer reported as a segment and is included within the other category within the results of operations by business segment below. Other consists of corporate operations, including Exelon Business Services Company, Enterprises and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. The comparison of 2004 and 2003 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to Generation. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, was transferred to Generation. The 2003 information related to the Generation segment discussed below has been adjusted to reflect the transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to the Generation segment. Exelon Energy Companys 2003 results, excluding intercompany eliminations, were as follows: Total revenues $ 660 Intersegment revenues 4 Operating revenues and purchased power from affiliates 200 Depreciation and amortization 1 Operating expenses 648 Interest expense 1 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 6 Income taxes 3 Income from continuing operations 3 Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (21 ) Net loss (18 ) 114 Table of Contents Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ 676 $ 702 $ (26 ) PECO 455 473 (18 ) Generation 657 (238 ) 895 Other 82 (45 ) 127 Total $ 1,870 $ 892 $ 978 Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ 676 $ 702 $ (26 ) PECO 455 473 (18 ) Generation 641 (259 ) 900 Other 69 (123 ) 192 Total $ 1,841 $ 793 $ 1,048 Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ 676 $ 707 $ (31 ) PECO 455 473 (18 ) Generation 673 (151 ) 824 Other 60 (124 ) 184 Total $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 959 115 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ (11 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 2,588 2,501 (87 ) Operating and maintenance 897 1,093 196 Depreciation and amortization 410 386 (24 ) Taxes other than income 291 267 (24 ) Total operating expense 4,186 4,247 61 Operating income 1,617 1,567 50 Other income and deductions Interest expense (369 ) (423 ) 54 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (26 ) 26 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (19 ) (19 ) Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) (130 ) Other, net 34 49 (15 ) Total other income and deductions (484 ) (400 ) (84 ) Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,133 1,167 (34 ) Income taxes 457 465 8 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 676 702 (26 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 5 (5 ) Net Income $ 676 $ 707 $ (31 ) Net Income. ComEds net income in 2004 decreased primarily due to costs associated with ComEds accelerated retirement of long term debt, partially offset by higher operating income. The decrease in operating and maintenance expense was primarily driven by lower severances charges. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2004 compared to the 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Weather $ (113 ) Customer choice (104 ) Rate changes and mix (75 ) Volume 178 Retail revenue (114 ) PJM transmission 164 T&O charges (41 ) Other (20 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 103 Decrease in operating revenues $ (11 ) 116 Table of Contents Weather. The weather impact for the year ended December 31, 2004 was unfavorable compared to the same period in 2003 as a result of milder weather in 2004. Cooling degree days decreased 12% and heating degree days decreased 6% in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003. Customer Choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd; however, as of December 31, 2004, no alternative electric supplier had approval from the ICC, and no electric utilities had chosen, to enter the ComEd residential market for the supply of electricity. 2004 2003 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 20,939 17,317 Percentage of total retail deliveries 24 % 20 % Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 22,161 20,300 Percentage of total retail customers (b ) (b ) Volume (GWhs) (a) 30,426 26,908 Percentage of total retail deliveries 35 % 31 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Rate Changes and Mix. In addition to a change in revenue from the change in rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 compared to 2003, revenue changed as a result of rate changes. Starting in the June 2003 billing cycle, the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component, decreased the collection of CTCs as compared to the respective prior year period. ComEds CTC revenues decreased by $135 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the same period in 2003. This decrease was partially offset by increased wholesale market prices which increased energy revenue received under the ComEd PPO and by increased average rates, resulting from a change in customer usage, paid by small and large commercial and industrial customers totaling $53 million. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, ComEd collected $169 million and $304 million, respectively, of CTC revenue. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Volume. ComEds electric revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of effects of weather and customer choice, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O Charges. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. 117 Table of Contents Purchased Power Expense. The changes in ComEds purchased power expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) PJM transmission $ 164 Volume 94 PJM administrative fees 15 Customer choice (87 ) Weather (57 ) T&O charges (22 ) Prices (7 ) Other (13 ) Increase in purchased power expense $ 87 PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. See Operating Revenues above. Volume. ComEds purchased power expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. PJM administrative fees. ComEd began paying PJM administrative fees upon its full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004. Customer choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to ComEds non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. Weather. ComEds purchased power expense decreased due to unfavorable weather conditions. T&O changes. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition, after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. Prices. ComEds purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to ComEds PPAs with Generation. 118 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses $ (115 ) Charge recorded at ComEd in 2003 (a) (41 ) Payroll expense (b) (25 ) Contractors (18 ) FERC annual fees (c) (11 ) Environmental charges (10 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (9 ) Incremental storm costs (7 ) Corporate allocations (d) 43 Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (196 ) (a) In 2003, ComEd reached an agreement with various Illinois retail market participants and other interested parties. (b) Due to fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEd is no longer directly charged annual fees by the FERC. PJM pays the annual FERC fees. (d) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in ComEd comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense $ 21 Other amortization expense 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 24 ComEds increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Recoverable transition costs amortization remained constant in 2004 as compared to 2003. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase was primarily attributable to a $25 million credit in 2003 for use tax payments for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger and a refund of $5 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2003 partially offset by a refund of $8 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2004. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense was primarily due to scheduled principal payments, debt retirements and prepayments, and refinancings at lower rates. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. During 2004, ComEd recorded $19 million of equity in net losses of subsidiaries as a result of ComEd deconsolidating their financing trusts. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt. In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $768 million of long term debt, of which $618 million was retired during the third quarter of 2004. During 2004, ComEd 119 Table of Contents recorded a charge of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of this charge included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Other, net. The change in other, net primarily results from the reversal of a $12 million reserve for potential plant disallowance in 2003 as a result of an agreement with various Illinois retail market participants and other interested parties, a reduction of AFDUC equity of $5 million during 2004 as a result of lower construction work in process balances and a $5 million decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC (formerly Unicom Investments, Inc.) as a result of a lower principal balance, which were partially offset by various other items. Income Taxes. ComEds effective income tax rate was 40.3% for 2004 and 39.8% 2003. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail ComEds electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 26,463 26,206 257 1.0 % Small commercial & industrial 21,662 23,334 (1,672 ) (7.2 %) Large commercial & industrial 6,913 6,955 (42 ) (0.6 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 1,893 2,297 (404 ) (17.6 %) Total full service 56,931 58,792 (1,861 ) (3.2 %) PPO Small commercial & industrial 4,110 3,912 198 5.1 % Large commercial & industrial 5,377 5,677 (300 ) (5.3 %) 9,487 9,589 (102 ) (1.1 %) Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 6,305 5,210 1,095 21.0 % Large commercial & industrial 14,634 12,110 2,524 20.8 % 20,939 17,320 3,619 20.9 % Total PPO and delivery only 30,426 26,909 3,517 13.1 % Total retail deliveries 87,357 85,701 1,656 1.9 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 120 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,295 $ 2,272 $ 23 1.0 % Small commercial & industrial 1,649 1,720 (71 ) (4.1 %) Large commercial & industrial 380 413 (33 ) (8.0 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 126 153 (27 ) (17.6 %) Total full service 4,450 4,558 (108 ) (2.4 %) PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 274 256 18 7.0 % Large commercial & industrial 304 312 (8 ) (2.6 %) 578 568 10 1.8 % Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 128 132 (4 ) (3.0 %) Large commercial & industrial 204 216 (12 ) (5.6 %) 332 348 (16 ) (4.6 %) Total PPO and delivery only 910 916 (6 ) (0.7 %) Total electric retail revenues 5,360 5,474 (114 ) (2.1 %) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 443 340 103 30.3 % Total operating revenues $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ (11 ) (0.2 %) (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. 121 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 4,487 $ 4,388 $ 99 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel expense 2,172 2,096 (76 ) Operating and maintenance 547 576 29 Depreciation and amortization 518 487 (31 ) Taxes other than income 236 173 (63 ) Total operating expense 3,473 3,332 (141 ) Operating income 1,014 1,056 (42 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (303 ) (324 ) 21 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (8 ) 8 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (25 ) (25 ) Other, net 18 2 16 Total other income and deductions (310 ) (330 ) 20 Income before income taxes 704 726 (22 ) Income taxes 249 253 4 Net income 455 473 (18 ) Preferred stock dividends 3 5 2 Net income on common stock $ 452 $ 468 $ (16 ) Net Income. PECOs net income in 2004 decreased primarily due to higher taxes other than income, due primarily to the reduction of real estate tax accruals in 2003, and higher depreciation and amortization expense due to increased CTC amortization, partially offset by higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense and lower operating and maintenance expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2004 compared to the 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Volume $ 148 $ 3 $ 151 Rate changes and mix 1 111 112 Weather (63 ) (21 ) (84 ) Customer choice (78 ) (78 ) Retail revenue 8 93 101 PJM transmission (15 ) (15 ) Other 3 10 13 Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues (12 ) 10 (2 ) Increase (decrease) in operating revenues $ (4 ) $ 103 $ 99 Volume. PECOs electric revenues increased as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. 122 Table of Contents Rate changes and mix. Electric revenues increased $1 million at PECO as a result of a $20 million increase related to a scheduled phase out of merger related rate reductions, offset by a $19 million decrease reflecting a change in rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 as compared to 2003. PECOs gas revenues increased due to increases in rates through PUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003, December 1, 2003 and March 1, 2004. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet for 2004 was 33% higher than the rate in 2003. PECOs purchased gas cost rates were reduced effective December 1, 2004. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were negatively affected by unfavorable weather conditions at PECO in 2004 compared 2003. In the PECO service territory, cooling and heating degree days were relatively unchanged and 5% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. For 2004 and 2003, 12% and 9%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by an alternative electric supplier. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. Also, operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2004 2003 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Number of customers at period end 101,500 312,600 Percentage of total retail customers 7 % 20 % Volume (GWhs) 4,605 3,135 Percentage of total retail deliveries 12 % 9 % The increase in energy provided by alternative electric suppliers was due to the assignment of residential customers to alternative electric suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PAPUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. The decrease in the number of customers served by alternative electric suppliers at year end 2004 was due to these residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Volume $ 69 $ (2 ) $ 67 PJM transmission (15 ) (15 ) Prices 18 111 129 Customer choice (78 ) (78 ) Weather (27 ) (15 ) (42 ) Other 15 15 Increase (decrease) in purchased power and fuel expense $ (33 ) $ 109 $ 76 123 Table of Contents Volume. PECOs purchased power and fuel expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPAs with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to PECOs residential customers selecting or being assigned to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. Weather. PECOs purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to unfavorable weather conditions. Other. PECOs fuel expense increased primarily due to increased off system sales of gas. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses $ (17 ) Automated meter reading system implementation costs at PECO in 2003 (16 ) Storm costs (a) (14 ) Payroll expense (b) (11 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (4 ) Corporate allocations (c) 34 Other (1 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (29 ) (a) Storm costs were significantly higher in 2003 primarily as a result of Hurricane Isabel. (b) PECO had fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in PECO comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization $ 31 Depreciation expense 1 Other amortization expense (1 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 31 PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income in 2004 was primarily attributable to a $58 million reduction of real estate tax accruals during 2003 and $12 million related to 124 Table of Contents the reversal of a use tax accrual in 2003 resulting from an audit settlement, partially offset by $4 million of lower payroll taxes in 2004. Interest Expense and Distributions on Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities. The aggregate of interest expense and distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt and refinancings at lower rates, partially offset by a reversal in 2003 of accrued interest expense on Federal income taxes of $8 million to reflect actual interest paid. Effective December 31, 2003, with the adoption of FIN 46 R, PECO deconsolidated its financing trusts (see Note 1 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). PECO no longer records distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiaries but records interest expense to affiliates related to PECOs obligations to the financing trusts. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. During 2004, PECO recorded $25 million of equity in net losses of subsidiaries as a result of deconsolidating its financing trusts. Other, Net. The increase was primarily attributable to a reversal in 2003 of accrued interest on Federal income taxes of $14 million to reflect actual interest received and gains on disposition of assets in 2004. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 35.4% for 2004 compared to 34.8% for 2003. See Note 8 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 10,349 11,358 (1,009 ) (8.9 %) Small commercial & industrial 6,728 6,624 104 1.6 % Large commercial & industrial 14,908 14,739 169 1.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 914 897 17 1.9 % Total full service 32,899 33,618 (719 ) (2.1 %) Delivery only (b) Residential 2,158 900 1,258 139.8 % Small commercial & industrial 1,687 1,455 232 15.9 % Large commercial & industrial 760 780 (20 ) (2.6 %) Total delivery only 4,605 3,135 1,470 46.9 % Total retail deliveries 37,504 36,753 751 2.0 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 125 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,317 $ 1,444 $ (127 ) (8.8 %) Small commercial & industrial 756 753 3 0.4 % Large commercial & industrial 1,113 1,090 23 2.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 80 80 Total full service 3,266 3,367 (101 ) (3.0 %) Delivery only (b) Residential 164 65 99 152.3 % Small commercial & industrial 86 75 11 14.7 % Large commercial & industrial 20 21 (1 ) (4.8 %) Total delivery only 270 161 109 67.7 % Total electric retail revenues 3,536 3,528 8 0.2 % Miscellaneous revenue (c) 203 215 (12 ) (5.6 %) Total electric and other revenue $ 3,739 $ 3,743 $ (4 ) (0.1 %) (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECO Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,949 61,858 (1,909 ) (3.1 %) Transportation 27,148 26,404 744 2.8 % Total 87,097 88,262 (1,165 ) (1.3 %) Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 702 $ 609 $ 93 15.3 % Transportation 18 18 Resales and other 28 18 10 55.6 % Total gas revenue $ 748 $ 645 $ 103 16.0 % 126 Table of Contents Results of Operations Generation 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 7,703 $ 8,586 $ (883 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 2,307 3,620 1,313 Fuel 1,704 1,930 226 Operating and maintenance 2,201 1,874 (327 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 286 200 (86 ) Taxes other than income 166 120 (46 ) Total operating expenses 6,664 8,689 2,025 Operating income (loss) 1,039 (103 ) 1,142 Other income and deductions Interest expense (103 ) (88 ) (15 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) 49 (63 ) Other, net 130 (268 ) 398 Total other income and deductions 13 (307 ) 320 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,052 (410 ) 1,462 Income taxes 401 (176 ) (577 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 651 (234 ) 885 Minority interest 6 (4 ) 10 Income (loss) from continuing operations 657 (238 ) 895 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (45 ) (35 ) (10 ) Income taxes (29 ) (14 ) 15 Loss from discontinued operations (16 ) (21 ) 5 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 641 (259 ) 900 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 32 108 (76 ) Net income (loss) $ 673 $ (151 ) $ 824 Net Income (Loss). Generations net income in 2004 increased from 2003 due to a number of factors. The increase in Generations 2004 net income was driven primarily by charges incurred in 2003 for the impairment of the long lived assets of Boston Generating of $945 million (before income taxes) and the impairment and other transaction related charges of $280 million (before income taxes) related to Generations investment in Sithe. Also, 2004 results were favorably affected by the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen and an increase in revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, primarily due to the decrease in average realized costs resulting from the increased success in the hedging program of fuel costs in 2004. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles recorded in 2004 included a benefit of $32 million, net of income taxes, related to the adoption of FIN 46 R and in 2003 included income of $108 million, net of income taxes related to the of adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these effects. 127 Table of Contents Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily as a result of the adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in revenues of $980 million in 2004 as compared with the prior year. Generations sales in 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Revenues (in millions) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,749 $ 3,831 $ (82 ) (2.1%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,227 4,107 (880 ) (21.4%) Total energy sales revenues 6,976 7,938 (962 ) (12.1%) Retail gas sales 448 414 34 8.2% Trading portfolio 1 (1 ) (100.0%) Other revenue (a) 279 233 46 19.7% Total revenues $ 7,703 $ 8,586 $ (883 ) (10.3%) Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 110,465 112,688 (2,223 ) (2.0%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 92,134 112,816 (20,682 ) (18.3%) Total sales 202,599 225,504 (22,905 ) (10.2%) (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements and fossil fuel sales. Trading volumes of 24,001 GWhs and 32,584 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2004, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric Sales to Affiliates. Sales to ComEd and PECO declined $82 million in 2004 as compared to the prior year. The lower sales to ComEd and PECO were primarily driven by cooler than normal summer weather and lower average transfer prices in 2004 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase(decrease) Effects of EITF 03 11 adoption (a) $ (966 ) Sale of Boston Generating (370 ) Addition of AmerGen operations 189 Other operations 267 Decrease in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (880 ) (a) Does not include $14 million of EITF 03 11 reclassifications related to fuel sales that are included in other revenues. The adoption of EITF 03 11 on January 1, 2004 resulted in the netting of certain revenues and the associated purchased power and fuel expense in 2004. The sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 resulted in less revenues from this entity in 2004 compared to the prior year. The acquisition of AmerGen resulted in increased market and retail electric sales of approximately $189 million in 2004. The remaining increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily due to higher volumes sold to the market at overall higher prices. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher coal prices in the Midwest region and higher oil and gas prices in the Mid Atlantic region. 128 Table of Contents Retail Gas Sales. Retail gas sales increased $34 million as a result of higher natural gas prices in 2004. Other revenues. Other revenues include increased sales from tolling agreements, offset by a decrease in fossil fuel revenues. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply of sales in 2004 and 2003, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 136,621 117,502 16.3% Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 48,968 83,692 (41.5%) Fossil and hydroelectric generation (c, d) 17,010 24,310 (30.0%) Total supply 202,599 225,504 (10.2%) (a) Excludes AmerGen for 2003. AmerGen generated 20,135 GWhs during the year ended December 31, 2004. (b) Sales in 2004 do not include 25,464 GWhs that were netted with purchased power GWhs as a result of the reclassification of certain hedging activities in accordance with EITF 03 11. Includes PPAs with AmerGen, which represented 12,667 GWhs in 2003. (c) Fossil and hydroelectric supply mix changed as a result of decreased fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. (d) Excludes Sithe and Generations investment in TEG and TEP. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase (decrease) Effects of the adoption of EITF 03 11 $ (980 ) Addition of AmerGen operations (344 ) Sale of Boston Generating (290 ) Midwest Generation (122 ) Price (13 ) Mark to market adjustments on hedging activity (14 ) Volume 267 Other (43 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (1,539 ) Adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in purchased power and fuel expense of $980 million. Addition of AmerGen Operations. As a result of Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in AmerGen in December 2003, purchased power decreased $379 million. In prior periods, Generation reported energy purchased from AmerGen as purchased power expense. The decrease in purchased power was partially offset by an increase of $35 million related to AmerGens nuclear fuel expense. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in fuel and purchased power expense for Boston Generating is due primarily to the sale of the business in May 2004. Midwest Generation. The volume of purchased power acquired from Midwest Generation declined in 2004 as a result of Generation exercising its option to reduce the capacity purchased from Midwest Generation, as announced in 2003. 129 Table of Contents Price. The decrease reflects the forward hedging of fuel at lower costs than 2003 realized costs. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities at Generation were $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to losses of $16 million for 2003. Hedging activities in 2004 relating to Boston Generating operations accounted for a gain of $4 million and hedging activities relating to other Generation operations in 2004 accounted for losses of $6 million. Volume. Generation experienced increases in purchased power and fuel expense due to increased market and retail electric sales throughout its various sales regions. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to lower transmission expense resulting from reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM. Generations average margins per megawatt hour (MWh) sold for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2004 2003 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 33.94 $ 34.00 (0.2%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 35.03 36.40 (3.8%) Total excluding the trading portfolio 34.43 35.20 (2.2%) Average electric supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (a) $ 17.60 $ 24.61 (28.5%) Average margin excluding the trading portfolio 16.83 10.59 58.9% (a) Average electric supply cost includes purchased power, and fuel costs associated with electric sales and PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. Average electric supply cost does not include purchased power and fuel cost associated with retail gas sales. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. In connection with the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003, Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes). See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Generations ownership interest in Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Generation Increase(decrease) Addition of AmerGen operations $ 331 Decommissioning related costs (a) 50 Refueling outage costs (b) 50 Pension, payroll and benefit costs, primarily associated with The Exelon Way (84 ) DOE Settlement (c) (52 ) Sale of Boston Generating (12 ) Other 44 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 327 (a) Includes $40 million due to AmerGen asset retirement obligation accretion not included in 2003. (b) Includes refueling outage cost of $43 million at AmerGen not included in 2003. (c) See Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the spent nuclear fuel storage settlement agreement with the DOE. 130 Table of Contents The increase in operating and maintenance expense was primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in Generations consolidated results for 2004. Decommissioning related costs increased primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in 2004 compared to the prior year. Accretion expense includes accretion of the asset retirement obligation and adjustments to offset the earnings impacts of certain decommissioning related activities revenues earned from ComEd and PECO, income taxes and depreciation of the ARC asset to zero. The increase in operating and maintenance expense was partially offset by reductions in payroll related costs, the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 and the settlement with the DOE to reimburse Generation for costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power costs data for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Generation 2004 2003 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5% 93.4% Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.43 $ 12.53 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 47.11 $ 43.25 (a) Includes AmerGen and excludes Salem, which is operated PSEG Nuclear. (b) Includes PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. The higher nuclear capacity factor and lower nuclear production costs were primarily due to ten fewer unplanned outages which offset the impact of one additional planned refuel outage. The lower production cost in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the lower fuel costs and the impact of the spent fuel storage cost settlement agreement with the DOE which offset the added cost for one additional planned refuel outage and costs associated with the Dresden generator repairs during outages in the fourth quarter of 2004. In 2004 as compared to 2003, the Quad Cities Units intermittently operated at pre Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the immediate expensing of an ARC, totaling $49 million, recorded in 2004 for which no useful life remains. The ARC was originally recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 143, which requires the establishment of an asset to offset the impact of an increased asset retirement obligation (ARO). See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the 2004 update to the ARO and ARC. The remaining increase is due to capital additions and the consolidation of AmerGen. These increase were partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense related to the Boston Generating facilities, which were sold in May 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 38% for 2004 compared to 43% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to income taxes associated with nuclear decommissioning trust activity, income tax deductions related to non taxable employee benefits and the dilution of the permanent income tax benefits due to the increase in pre tax income in 2004. See Note 12 of Generations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. In 2004, the loss from discontinued operations included Sithes results from April 1, 2004 through the end of the year and the results from AllEnergy, a former subsidiary of Exelon Energy. Generation had accounted for the investment in Sithe as an unconsolidated equity method investment prior to its consolidation on March 31, 2004 pursuant to FIN 46 R. The loss from discontinued operations in 2003 included the results of AllEnergy. Sithes net impact to Generation was a loss of $19 million in 2004, while AllEnergy produced $3 million of net income in 2004. In 2003, AllEnergy had a net loss of $21 million. See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 131 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Exelons businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. These capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. Exelons access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on Exelon and its subsidiaries credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that Exelon no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon has access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1.5 billion that it currently utilizes to support its commercial paper programs. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Exelon primarily uses its capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay common stock dividends, fund its pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. Exelon spends a significant amount of cash on construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, Exelon has historically operated with a working capital deficit. However, Exelon expects operating cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake, other than the proposed merger with PSEG which will require the issuance of Exelon common stock in exchange for PSEG common stock, may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows will be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice and future regulatory proceedings on their revenues and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory proceedings. Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Cash flows from operations have been a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements. Taking into account the factors noted above, Exelon also obtains cash from non operating sources such as the proceeds from the debt issuance in 2005 to fund Exelons $2 billion pension contribution (see Note 10 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in the rate regulatory environments of ComEd and PECO, although any effects are not expected to hinder the ability of PECO to fund its business requirements. Under Illinois law enacted in 1997, ComEd is required, beginning in 2007, to purchase energy in the wholesale energy markets in order to meet the retail energy needs of ComEds customers because ComEd does not own any generation. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell energy beginning in 2007 is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there may be potential material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. On January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power by ComEd for the time period after 2006. The procurement process is similar to the process described in the Procurement Case with some modifications to enhance consumer protection. The auction will be administered by an independent auction manager, with oversight by the ICC staff. The first auction is scheduled to take place during the fall of 2006, at which time ComEds entire load will be up for bid. To mitigate the effects of changes in future prices, 132 Table of Contents the load will be staggered in three year contracts. To further mitigate the impact on its residential customers of transitioning to this process, ComEd has offered to develop a cap and deferral proposal to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers, some or all of which could require regulatory or legislative approval to implement. A cap and deferral proposal, generally speaking, would limit the procurement costs that ComEd could pass through to its customers for a specified period of time and allow ComEd to collect any unrecovered procurement costs in later years. Additionally, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the IRS, to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. As discussed in Note 12 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, this tax obligation is significant. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations: 2005 2004 Variance Net income $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,910 2,274 1,636 Income taxes 138 293 (155 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets andliabilities (b) (821 ) 237 (1,058 ) Pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments, net (2,003 ) (270 ) (1,733 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 2,147 $ 4,398 $ (2,251 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment of goodwill, investments and long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. The reduction of cash flows from operations during the current year is primarily the result of $2 billion of discretionary contributions to Exelons pension plans during the first quarter of 2005, which was initially funded through a term loan agreement, as further described in the Cash Flows from Financing Activities section below. Of the total contribution, ComEd, PECO and Generation contributed $803 million, $109 million and $844 million, respectively. ComEds and PECOs contributions were funded by capital contributions from Exelon. The Generation contribution was primarily funded by capital contributions from Exelon and included $2 million from internally generated funds. Exelon did not contribute to its pension plans in subsequent quarters of 2005. Discretionary tax deductible pension plan payments were $439 million in 2004. Exelon also contributed $11 million during 2004 to the pension plans needed to satisfy minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Cash flows provided by operations for 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ 2,147 $ 4,398 ComEd 247 1,330 PECO 704 983 Generation 972 1,947 Excluding the March 2005 discretionary pension contributions discussed above, changes in Exelons, ComEds, PECOs and Generations cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. 133 Table of Contents In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations and the discretionary pension contributions discussed above, significant operating cash flow impacts for ComEd and Generation for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: ComEd In the third quarter of 2005, ComEd settled $325 million of interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges for a loss of $15 million which was paid in October 2005. This was recorded as a pre tax charge to net income because the underlying transaction for which these interest rate swaps were entered into is no longer probable of occurring. During 2004, ComEd paid $86 million for prepayment premiums on the retirement of debt. Generation During 2005, Generation had net disbursements of counterparty collateral of $187 million compared to $73 million of net collections of counterparty collateral in 2004. The increase in cash outflows from 2004 was primarily due to changes in collateral requirements resulting from increased activity within exchange based markets for energy and fossil fuel. During 2005, Generation had net payments of approximately $165 million primarily due to increased use of financial instruments to hedge future sales of power and future purchases of fossil fuel. During 2005, Exelon received a $102 million Federal income tax refund for capital losses generated in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. In December 2004, TXU and Generation terminated a tolling agreement and entered into a new agreement. Upon termination of the original agreement, Generation received a cash payment of $172 million. The resulting gain was deferred and will be recognized as income over the contractual term of the new agreement. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities for 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ (2,487 ) $ (1,739 ) ComEd (479 ) 486 PECO (241 ) (251 ) Generation (1,294 ) (1,103 ) Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2005 and projected amounts for 2006 are as follows: 2005 2006 ComEd $ 776 $ 925 PECO 298 333 Generation 1,067 1,115 Other (a) 24 68 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 2,165 $ 2,441 (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations. 134 Table of Contents Projected capital expenditures and other investments for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 50% of the projected 2006 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO are for continuing projects to maintain and improve the reliability of their transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amount is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. Exelon is continuing to evaluate its total capital spending requirements. Exelon anticipates that ComEds and PECOs capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings and the issuance of debt or preferred securities or capital contributions from Exelon. Generation. Generations capital expenditures for 2005 reflect additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages) and nuclear fuel. Exelon anticipates that Generations capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Other significant investing activities for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $102 million and $56 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Exelon received cash proceeds of $76 million, net of $2 million held in escrow at December 31, 2004, from the sale of its investments in affordable housing in 2004. Cash proceeds of $227 million, net of transaction costs and contingency payments on prior year dispositions, were received during 2004 from the sales of Exelon Thermal Holdings, Inc., substantially all of the operating businesses of Services, and Enterprises investments in PECO TelCove and other equity method and cost basis investments of Enterprises. Early settlement on an acquisition note receivable from the 2003 disposition of InfraSource resulted in cash proceeds of $30 million during 2004. ComEd As a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool, $308 million and $97 million were returned to ComEd during 2005 and 2004, respectively. PECO During 2005, $26 million was returned to PECO as a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool and during 2004, $34 million was contributed by PECO. Generation During 2005, Generation received approximately $52 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to the retired units. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Specifically, subsidiaries of Generation closed on the acquisition of Reservoir Capital Groups 50% interest in Sithe for cash payments of $97 million and the sale of 100% of Sithe to Dynegy, for net cash proceeds of $103 million. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Sithe. 135 Table of Contents On March 31, 2004, Generation consolidated the assets and liabilities of Sithe under the provisions of FIN 46 R, which resulted in an increase in cash of $19 million. See Notes 1 and Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the FIN 46 R consolidation of Sithe. Generation received cash proceeds of $42 million from the January 2004 sale of three gas turbines. During 2004, Generation used $29 million of restricted cash related to Sithes operating activities and used $11 million of restricted cash to support the operations of Boston Generating and provided $4 million for certain environmental obligations. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ (19 ) $ (2,627 ) ComEd 240 (1,820 ) PECO (500 ) (676 ) Generation 93 (739 ) On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement. The loan proceeds were used to fund discretionary contributions of $2 billion to Exelons pension plans, including contributions of $803 million, $109 million and $842 million by ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. To facilitate the contributions by ComEd, PECO and Generation, Exelon contributed the corresponding amounts to the capital of each company. On April 1, 2005, Exelon entered into a $500 million term loan agreement that was subsequently fully borrowed to reduce this $2 billion term loan. During the second quarter of 2005, $200 million of this $500 million term loan, as well as the remaining $1.5 billion balance on the $2 billion term loan described above, were repaid with the net proceeds received from the issuance of the long term senior notes discussed below. The $300 million outstanding balance under the term loan agreement bears interest at a variable rate determined, at Exelons option, by either the Base Rate or the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the term loan agreement). On November 30, 2005, the term loan was amended and restated to extend the agreement from December 1, 2005 to September 16, 2006. See Note 10 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. On June 9, 2005, Exelon issued and sold $1.7 billion of senior debt securities pursuant to its senior debt indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, consisting of $400 million of 4.45% senior notes due 2010, $800 million of 4.90% senior notes due 2015 and $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2035. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay the $1.5 billion in remaining principal due on the $2 billion term loan agreement and $200 million of the $500 million term loan agreement referenced above. Exelon may redeem some or all of the notes at any time prior to maturity at a specified redemption price. The notes are unsecured and rank equally with the other senior unsecured indebtedness of Exelon. Additionally, Exelon settled interest rate swaps for a net payment of $38 million and paid approximately $12 million of fees in connection with the debt offering. In 2005, ComEd used funding received from $324 million of commercial paper to retire long term debt. In 2004, ComEd retired $1.2 billion of long term debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity in accordance with an accelerated liability management plan and retired $728 million of long term debt due to financing affiliates. Additionally, in 2004, Generation paid $27 million of 136 Table of Contents a note payable to Sithe. During 2004, Exelon also issued $164 million of commercial paper, net of payments, and received cash proceeds of $33 million from the settlement of interest rate swaps. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ (1,070 ) $ (831 ) ComEd (498 ) (457 ) PECO (473 ) (394 ) Generation (857 ) (662 ) On January 24, 2006, Exelons board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2006 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2006. The dividend is payable on June 10, 2006, to shareholders of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2006, provided the Merger with PSEG with has not closed. See ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for additional information. The declaration and payment of dividends by ComEd is a matter for determination by the board of directors of ComEd. The ComEd board of directors, at a meeting held in December 2005, determined that the board would consider the dividend policy of ComEd at a subsequent meeting. The ComEd board has not discussed dividend policy in depth or taken action to establish or revise ComEds dividend policy. If and to the extent that future dividends from ComEd are less than the level of dividends determined in accordance with past practices at ComEd, Exelon expects that distributions from Generation would be increased. Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $222 million and $240 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, Exelon purchased treasury shares totaling $362 million and $82 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Intercompany Money Pool. ComEds net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool increased $140 million during 2005. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool decreased $191 million and $162 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper by Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. At December 31, 2005, Exelon, along with ComEd, PECO and Generation, participated with a group of banks in a $1 billion unsecured revolving facility maturing on July 16, 2009 and a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on October 31, 2006. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. 137 Table of Contents At December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had the following sublimits and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower BankSublimit (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon $ 100 $ 100 $ ComEd 650 623 459 PECO 350 350 220 Generation 400 353 311 (a) Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. (b) Available capacity represents the bank sublimit net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit facilities. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum LIBOR adder is 170 basis points. The average interest rates on commercial paper in 2005 for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were approximately 3.28%, 4.13%, 3.44% and 4.12%, respectively. The credit agreements require Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and, in the case of Exelon and Generation, revenues from Sithe and interest on the debt of its project subsidiaries. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2005: Exelon ComEd PECO Generation Credit agreement threshold 2.65 to 1 2.25 to 1 2.25 to 1 3.25 to 1 At December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. On February 10 through 13, 2006, Generation entered into separate additional credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $875 million, which may be drawn down in the form of loans and or letters of credit. The additional credit facilities are for a term of 364 days and contain the same terms as the revolving credit facilities described above. The credit facilities will be used primarily to meet short term funding requirements and to issue letters of credit. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2005, the capital structures of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated ComEd PECO (a) Generation Long term debt 35 % 25 % 19 % 29 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 20 12 50 Common equity 39 57 26 Members equity 64 Preferred securities 1 Notes payable 6 6 4 7 Minority interest 138 Table of Contents (a) As of December 31, 2005, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.2 billion receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table, but is excluded from the percentages in this footnote), consisted of 38% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 3% notes payable and 58% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. (b) Includes $4.5 billion, $1.3 billion and $3.2 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property and CTCs of ComEd and PECO or mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the corporate treasurer. ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon and UII, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, may participate as lenders. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the money pool by participant during 2005 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2005: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2005Contributed (Borrowed) ComEd $ 517 $ 200 $ (140 ) PECO 210 20 8 Generation 54 540 (92 ) BSC 30 156 (16 ) UII, LLC 3 Exelon 242 241 Sithe Long Term Debt Debt totaling approximately $820 million was eliminated from the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as a result of the sale of Sithe on January 31, 2005. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the sale of Sithe. Security Ratings Exelons, ComEds, PECOs and Generations access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2005: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa2 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior secured debt Baa1 (a) A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 Transition bonds (c) Aaa AAA AAA Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 139 Table of Contents (a) Downgraded by Moodys Investor Service from A3 to Baa1 on December 15, 2005. (b) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (c) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On September 30, 2005, Moodys Investors Service placed ComEds ratings under review for a possible downgrade due to the adverse regulatory environment in Illinois as described in Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On December 15, 2005, Moodys Investor Service downgraded the long term debt and preferred stock ratings of ComEd. ComEds short term rating for commercial paper was not downgraded. All of ComEds ratings remain on review for possible downgrade. The ratings outlook for Exelon, Generation and PECO were unchanged. On October 3, 2005, Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P) lowered its corporate credit ratings and senior unsecured debt ratings on Exelon and its subsidiaries due to the adverse regulatory environment in Illinois as described in Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The short term debt ratings and senior secured ratings were unaffected. The ratings on all Exelon affiliates remain on CreditWatch with negative implications pending the completion of the merger with PSEG. On January 9, 2006, Fitch Ratings revised the rating outlook on the long term debt and preferred stock of ComEd to negative from stable. The rating outlooks on all other Exelon affiliates remain stable. None of Exelons borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under Exelons credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit its counterparties and Generation to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Shelf Registrations As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd and PECO had current shelf registration statements for the sale of $300 million, $555 million and $550 million, respectively, of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of Exelon, ComEd or PECO to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Restrictions The issuance of long term debt or equity securities by ComEd requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their financing needs or in connection with a specific financing. 140 Table of Contents Under PUHCA, the SEC had financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations and Exelons financings. As a result of the repeal of PUHCA, effective February 8, 2006, the SECs financing jurisdiction under PUHCA for ComEds and PECOs short term financings and Generations financings reverted to FERC and Exelons financings are no longer subject to regulatory approvals. On February 7, 2006, FERC issued a blanket authorization for the acquisition of securities pursuant to the Exelon Utility Money Pool Agreement, subject to the same limits and reporting requirements imposed by the SEC under PUHCA. The FERC order is effective for one year instead of the usual two year effective period. The one year period will allow Exelon to maintain the status quo while FERC determines whether on rehearing to amend its rules to make future applications unnecessary (e.g., blanket authorizations for all money pool transactions). Because PSE&G was not an applicant requesting participation in the Exelon Utility Money Pool, the FERC denied Exelons request to allow PSE&G to participate in the Exelon Utility Money Pool post merger. On December 7, 2005, ComEd and PECO filed applications for short term financing authority with the FERC in the amounts of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. In February 2006, ComEd and PECO received orders from the FERC approving their requests, effective February 8, 2006 through December 31, 2007. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in November 2000 that became effective again with the repeal of PUHCA. If the FERC proceeding relating to Generations market based rate authority results in revocation of that authority, Generations blanket financing authority may also be revoked. If that financing authority is revoked, it is possible that the revocation of financing authority would be effective prospectively. It is also possible that the revocation of financing authority might be retroactive to October 2, 2005. FERC has adopted regulations that would grandfather prior SEC approvals of financings at a companys election. The FERC regulations require that companies intending to issue securities in reliance on their SEC financing orders file with FERC a copy of their SEC financing order within 30 days after the effective date of PUHCA repeal. In light of the potential uncertainty relating to the possible revocation of FERCs blanket financing authority, Exelon has filed its SEC financing order with the FERC. The SEC financing order contains certain terms, limits, and reporting requirements which Exelon continues to review to determine the extent to which it would be subject to such conditions. Under applicable law, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at ComEd, PECO or Generation may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. At December 31, 2005, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.2 billion, including ComEds retained deficit of $(81) million consisting of $1,099 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends offset by an unappropriated retained deficit of ($1,180) million, PECOs retained earnings of $649 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $1,002 million. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries, has investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45k (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45k contains a provision under which credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. 141 Table of Contents The following table (in dollars) provides the estimated phase out range for 2006 and 2007 based on the per barrel price of oil. The table also contains the annual average New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. index (NYMEX) future prices per barrel at December 31, 2005 for 2006 and 2007. Estimated2006 Estimated2007 Beginning of Phase Out Range (a) $ 59 $ 61 End of Phase Out Range (a) 75 76 Annual Average NYMEX Future Price 65 66 (a) Estimated phase out ranges are calculated using inflation rates published by the IRS after year end. The inflation rate used by Exelon to estimate the 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges was 2%. Based on the 2006 and 2007 NYMEX futures prices at December 31, 2005, Exelon estimates there will be a phase out of tax credits of 38% and 36% in 2006 and 2007, respectively. This would decrease Exelons net income as compared to 2005 by as much as $38 million and $36 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. These estimates can change significantly due to the volatility in oil prices. The purchase price for Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities is comprised of fixed and variable components. The fixed component is in the form of a non recourse note that requires nonrefundable quarterly payments of principal and interest to sellers. The variable component is based on the value of the estimated tax credits that will be allocated to Exelon. Exelons subsidiaries are also required to make capital contributions based on the allocated amount of tax credits to the operators to fund the operating losses. Given the refundable nature of the variable components of the purchase price and operating losses paid to the sellers and operators of the facilities, respectively, Exelons results of operations and cash flows are not anticipated to be affected by a phase out of tax credits due to a rise in crude oil prices to the extent of these variable components (notwithstanding the differences in the timing of refundable variable payments and the associated refunds). However, Exelons results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected to the extent that Exelon is not allocated enough tax credits to cover the principal and interest payments due on the non recourse notes representing the non refundable fixed component of the purchase price. Absent any efforts to mitigate market price exposure, a phase out could result in the reduction of the non operating net income generated by the investments and could result in an estimated after tax non operating loss of up to $70 million per year in the event all tax credits are completely eliminated, exclusive of any impacts related to the intangible assets. In 2005, Exelon and Generation entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of this exposure. These derivatives could result in after tax cash proceeds to Exelon of up to $42 million and $42 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively, in the event the tax credits are completely phased out. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. 142 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2011 and beyond 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 8,140 $ 405 $ 1,125 $ 669 $ 5,941 Long term debt to financing trusts 4,508 507 1,950 1,506 545 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 4,199 697 767 691 2,044 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,588 267 399 173 749 Capital leases 46 2 4 4 36 Operating leases 766 55 108 92 511 Purchase power obligations 8,800 2,124 1,672 1,258 3,746 Fuel purchase agreements 4,299 754 1,235 933 1,377 Other purchase obligations (b) 987 211 283 275 218 Chicago agreement (c) 42 6 12 12 12 Regulatory commitments 10 10 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 906 906 Obligation to minority shareholders 46 3 5 5 33 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 11 11 Asset retirement obligations (d) 4,157 66 13 12 4,066 Total contractual obligations $ 38,505 $ 5,118 $ 7,573 $ 5,630 $ 20,184 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2005. The contributions will be funded in part by additional debt anticipated to be issued in 2005. Estimated future payments associated with the anticipated debt issuance have not been included in the table above. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (d) Represents the present value of Generations obligation to decommission nuclear plants and ComEds, PECOs and Generations conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. AROs associated with assets that have been fully depreciated but which are still in service have been reflected as payments due in 2006. 143 Table of Contents ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2011 and beyond Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 2,839 $ 328 $ 564 $ 230 $ 1,717 Long term debt to financing trusts 1,348 307 680 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,488 420 238 207 623 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 731 75 95 52 509 Operating leases 153 16 37 30 70 Other purchase commitments (b) 22 14 8 Chicago agreement (c) 42 6 12 12 12 Regulatory commitments 10 10 Asset retirement obligations (d) 151 62 12 11 66 Total contractual obligations $ 6,784 $ 1,238 $ 1,646 $ 542 $ 3,358 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (d) Represents conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. AROs associated with assets that have been fully depreciated but which are still in service have been reflected as payments due in 2006. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2011 and beyond (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 1,184 $ $ 450 $ 30 $ 704 Long term debt to financing trusts 3,159 199 1,270 1,506 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 361 52 93 72 144 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 857 192 304 121 240 Operating leases 8 3 2 2 1 Other purchase commitments (b) 220 37 46 46 91 Asset retirement obligations (c) 20 4 1 1 14 Total contractual obligations $ 5,809 $ 487 $ 2,166 $ 1,778 $ 1,378 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) Represents conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. AROs associated with assets that have been fully depreciated but which are still in service have been reflected as payments due in 2006. 144 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment Due within Due 2011 and beyond (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 1,805 $ 12 $ 24 $ 13 $ 1,756 Intercompany money pool 92 92 Interest obligations related to long term debt (a) 854 94 185 184 391 Capital leases 46 2 4 4 36 Operating leases 534 31 59 53 391 Purchase power obligations 8,800 2,124 1,672 1,258 3,746 Fuel purchase agreements 4,299 754 1,235 933 1,377 Other purchase commitments (b) 688 112 219 230 127 Obligation to minority shareholders 46 3 5 5 33 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 11 11 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 906 906 Asset retirement obligations (c) 3,986 3,986 Total contractual obligations $ 22,067 $ 3,235 $ 3,403 $ 2,680 $ 12,749 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2005. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) Represents the present value of Generations obligation to decommission nuclear plants and conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. For additional information about: regulatory commitments, see Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. commercial paper, see Note 10 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the spent nuclear fuel and decommissioning obligations, see Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the contribution required to Exelons pension plans to satisfy ERISA minimum funding requirements, see Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments and fuel purchase agreements, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the obligation to minority shareholders, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. asset retirement obligations, see Notes 13 and 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics 145 Table of Contents financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $14 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon as of December 31, 2005 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permits ComEd, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, Generation was required to re measure its decommissioning liabilities at fair value and recorded an asset retirement obligation of $2.4 billion on January 1, 2003. Increases in the asset retirement obligation to decommission nuclear generating facilities resulting from the passage of time are recorded as operating and maintenance expense. Increases in the asset retirement obligation resulting from a remeasurement are recorded with a corresponding ARC, which is a component of property, plant and equipment. At December 31, 2005, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets related to its nuclear fueled generating facilities was approximately $4 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin after 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held approximately $5.6 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Exelons commercial commitments as of December 31, 2005. Refund Claims ComEd and PECO have several pending tax refund claims seeking acceleration of certain tax deductions and additional tax credits. ComEd and PECO are unable to estimate the ultimate outcome of these refund claims and will account for any amounts received in the period the matters are settled with the IRS and state taxing authorities. ComEd and PECO had entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of these refund claims with the IRS. ComEd and PECO previously made refundable prepayments to the tax consultants of $11 million and $5 million, respectively. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome of the claims and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS if any. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. A portion of ComEds tax benefits, including any associated interest for periods prior to the merger among PECO, Unicom Corporation (Unicom), the former parent company of ComEd, and Exelon (PECO / Unicom Merger) would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill pursuant to a reallocation of the PECO / Unicom Merger purchase price. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. 146 Table of Contents In 2004, the IRS granted preliminary approval for one of ComEds refund claims and final approval was obtained in the first quarter of 2005. The refund and associated interest have been recorded in the financial statements. Approximately $14 million of tax and interest benefit received in the second quarter of 2005 has been reflected in the financial statements of which $12 million ($9 million after tax) was recorded to goodwill under the provisions of EITF Issue 93 7, Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination. As a result, ComEd recorded consulting expenses of $5 million (pre tax) in 2004. Based on negotiations with the IRS during the first half of 2005, PECO believed it would receive a tax refund related to one of its claims and recorded a $6 million (pre tax) charge related to expected consulting fees during the first quarter of 2005. However, as the result of a recent unfavorable tax court decision involving another utility related to a similar type of refund claim, PECO no longer believes payment of the consulting fees is probable and reversed the $6 million (pre tax) charge during the third quarter 2005. PECO is unable to predict the final impact of its future negotiations with the IRS on this matter. Variable Interest Entities Sithe. As of December 31, 2004, Generation was a 50% owner of Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Generation consolidated Sithe within its financial statements as of March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of Generations entire interest in Sithe that was completed on January 31, 2005. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Trust IV in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding, LLC, ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, PECO Trust III and PETT were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Amounts of $1.3 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005. See Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities in Part I, ITEM 1 for further discussion of the nature, purpose and history of Exelons involvement with these financing trusts. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2010 based on the November 2005 amendment to this agreement. At December 31, 2005, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $195 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, (SFAS No. 140) and a $30 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a long term note payable and 147 Table of Contents reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as long term debt due within one year. At December 31, 2004, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $179 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, and a $46 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a long term note payable and reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as long term debt due within one year. PECO must continue to service these receivables and must maintain the level of the accounts receivable at $225 million. If PECO fails to maintain that level, the cash that would otherwise be received by PECO under this program must be held in escrow until the level is met. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposit. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the American Nuclear Insurers Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 148 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Exelon is exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, ComEd and Generation) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation is primarily exposed to commodity price risk with ComEd having modest exposure due to the need to purchase ancillary services and the commodity price risk in relation to the CTC revenues collected from customers. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and they are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case those changes are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being cash flow hedged is three years. Generation has an estimated 88% hedge ratio in 2006 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations unhedged non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price 149 Table of Contents of electricity is approximately a $61 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes an 88% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA, as amended, with ComEd under which Generation has agreed to supply all of ComEds load obligations through 2006. At times, ComEds load obligations are greater than the capacity of Generations owned generating units in the ComEd region. As such, Generation procures power through purchase power and lease agreements and has contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. In 2004, Generation retained 3,858 MWs of capacity under the terms of three then existing PPAs with Midwest Generation, LLC (Midwest Generation). Generations contract to purchase power from Midwest Generation expired at the end of 2004. As a result, Generations exposure to market price movements in the ComEd region in 2005 increased compared to 2004 due in part to the expiration of the Midwest Generation contract. Consequently, after 2004, Generation must procure the necessary power for ComEd through market purchases and other means to the extent not provided by Generations own generating facilities. Following the expiration of the Illinois transition period and end of PPA between Generation and ComEd in 2006, all of Generations supply in the ComEd region will be available for sale into the wholesale markets and exposed to changes in market prices. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted in a gain of $17 million (before income taxes), which represented a net unrealized mark to market gain of $15 million and realized gain of $2 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $90,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for year ended December 31, 2005 of $4,564 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officer (CCRO). 150 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2005. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2004 $ (216 ) Total change in fair value during 2004 of contracts recorded in earnings 158 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (197 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 475 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (512 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market 147 Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2004 (a) (145 ) Total change in fair value during 2005 of contracts recorded in earnings 108 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (105 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 583 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (879 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (102 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ (540 ) (a) Includes a $39 million liability related to Sithe and the related mark to market expense which were reclassified to discontinued operations. The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2005 and 2004: December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Current assets $ 916 $ 403 Noncurrent assets 286 373 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,202 776 Current liabilities (1,282 ) (598 ) Noncurrent liabilities (460 ) (323 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (1,742 ) (921 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities $ (540 ) $ (145 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2005 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 151 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net liabilities, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 andBeyond Total Fair Value Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ 3 Prices provided by other external sources (388 ) (134 ) (2 ) (524 ) Total $ (386 ) $ (133 ) $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ (521 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ 85 $ (57 ) $ 5 $ $ $ $ 33 Prices provided by other external sources (43 ) 25 (5 ) (23 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods (24 ) (5 ) (29 ) Total $ 18 $ (37 ) $ $ $ $ $ (19 ) (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate andOther Hedges Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2004 $ (133 ) $ (16 ) $ (149 ) Changes in fair value (312 ) 17 (295 ) Disposal of existing Boston Generating contracts 16 16 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 290 290 Exelon Energy Company opening balance 2 2 Sithe Energies, Inc. opening balance (10 ) (10 ) Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2004 (137 ) (9 ) (146 ) Changes in fair value (533 ) 5 (528 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income 356 356 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2005 $ (314 ) $ (4 ) $ (318 ) 152 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to revenue collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO. Revenues collected from customers electing the PPO include commodity charges at market based prices and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. Because the change in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by the change in CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. ComEds CTC revenues are also collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. ComEds CTC rates are reset once a year in the spring, and customers can elect to lock in their CTC rates for a one or multiple year terms. ComEd anticipates that CTC revenues will range from $35 million to $50 million in 2006. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. ComEd also has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to ancillary services that are purchased from PJM. These services are not provided for in the current PPA between Generation and ComEd. Credit Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. For the year ended December 31, 2005, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3.5% of its electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 7.6% of its retail electric and gas revenues. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Generation Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. They further delineate that exposure by the credit rating of the 153 Table of Contents counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through ISOs which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2005 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 472 $ 53 $ 419 2 $ 147 Non investment grade 60 11 49 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 41 41 Internally rated non investment grade 38 38 Total $ 611 $ 64 $ 547 2 $ 147 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Rating as of December 31, 2004 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 151 $ 33 $ 118 $ Non investment grade 98 20 78 1 63 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 3 3 Total $ 265 $ 53 $ 212 1 $ 63 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2005 (a) Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 472 $ $ $ 472 Non investment grade 56 4 60 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 38 3 41 Internally rated non investment grade 17 14 7 38 Total $ 583 $ 21 $ 7 $ 611 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is 154 Table of Contents possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets that are administered by ISOs: PJM, ISO New England, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets included a $507 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2005. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1,492 million, less unearned income of $985 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Variable Rate Debt. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2005, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $3 million, $1 million and $2 million decrease in Exelons, ComEds and Generations, respectively, pre tax earnings. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a decrease in pre tax earnings of less than $1 million at PECO. Fair Value Hedges. At December 31, 2005, ComEd had interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million. At December 31, 2005, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(1) million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2005. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount ComEd would pay the counterparties. On January 17, 2006, ComEd settled these swaps and paid $1 million. The aggregate fair value of ComEds interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 155 Table of Contents 2005 is estimated to be a favorable impact to ComEd of $5 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount counterparties would pay ComEd. The aggregate fair value of ComEds interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2005 is estimated to be a favorable impact to the counterparties of $7 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount ComEd would pay the counterparties. Cash Flow Hedges. During 2005, ComEd entered into five forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $325 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of a future financing. At the time of the swap trades, the debt issuance that these swaps were hedging was considered probable; therefore, ComEd accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as cash flow hedges. However, in September 2005, the future financing was postponed indefinitely and consequently, ComEd unwound the $325 million forward starting interest rate swaps and paid the counterparties approximately $15 million. As a result, Exelon and ComEd recognized a pre tax loss of $15 million which was included in other, net within the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, during 2005, Exelon settled interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $1.5 billion and recorded pre tax losses of $39 million which will be recorded as additional interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2005, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $391 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 156 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Exelon Liquidity and Capital Resources, may adversely impact the Registrants results of operations, 41 Table of Contents cash flows and market price of their publicly traded securities. While each of the Registrants believes it has identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect its performance or financial condition. ComEd and PECO Regulatory Risks The process for establishing ComEds and PECOs rates after the rate freeze and rate caps expire is contentious, in view of requested rate increase requests, and involves uncertainty as to their form and adequacy. ComEd and PECO cannot currently predict the ultimate outcomes of the actions by the Illinois and Pennsylvania state regulators for establishing rates after the rate freeze and caps expire. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR obligations, whereby each utility is required to provide electricity service to customers in its service area who choose to obtain their electricity from the utility. ComEd has filed two proceedings seeking regulatory approval of the process by which it proposes to procure electricity and the rates it proposes to charge to deliver electricity to customers. Various governmental parties and consumer groups have contested the proposed electricity procurement process as well as the requests made in the proceedings. The ultimate outcome of these matters, and in particular the ComEd Procurement case in Illinois and regulatory proceedings related to the end of PECOs transition period, will have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. ComEd may be required to sell electricity at capped rates while buying electricity at market rates, which are more volatile and potentially higher. Although the ICC has issued an order authorizing the reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power after 2006, that decision remains subject to petitions for rehearing and is likely to be challenged in court. ComEd cannot predict the results of those challenges or whether the Illinois General Assembly might take action that could have a material impact on the procurement process. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell electricity beginning in 2007 is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there may be material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. Exelon and ComEd believe that these potential material adverse consequences could include, but may not be limited to, loss of ComEds investment grade credit rating and a possible reduction in the other Registrants credit ratings, limited or lost access for ComEd to credit markets to finance operations and capital investment, and loss of ComEds capacity to enter into bilateral long term electricity procurement contracts, which would likely force ComEd to procure electricity at more volatile and potentially higher prices in the spot market. Moreover, to the extent ComEd is not permitted to recover its costs, ComEds ability to maintain and improve service may be diminished and its ability to maintain reliability may be impaired. In the nearer term, these prospects could have adverse effects on ComEds liquidity if vendors reduce credit or shorten payment terms or if ComEds financing alternatives become more limited and significantly less flexible. In addition, ComEd has indicated it is willing to develop a cap and deferral arrangement to keep residential rates at or below 1996 levels through 2009. A cap and deferral arrangement would limit the procurement costs that ComEd could pass through to its customers for a period of time and allow ComEd to collect those unrecovered costs in future years. 42 Table of Contents Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings that are contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which introduce time delays in effecting rate changes as well as uncertainty as to the ultimate result. ComEd and PECO are involved in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have long time lines, which may not be limited by statute. Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. ComEds and PECOs ability to cover their respective operating and capital costs may be limited by rate caps currently in effect, which will affect their respective results of operations during the rate cap period. The rate freezes or caps in effect at ComEd and PECO currently limit their ability to recover increased operating expenses and to recover the costs of investments in new transmission and distribution facilities. ComEd is subject to a rate freeze on bundled retail rates that will remain in effect through January 1, 2007. PECO is subject to rate caps on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 and on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. The transmission and distribution rate caps at PECO may be extended to December 31, 2010 as a result of a settlement in the Merger approval process in Pennsylvania. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. ComEd and PECO expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve the reliability of their transmission and distribution systems and for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. As a result, ComEds and PECOs future results of operations, during the periods indicated above, may be adversely affected if ComEd and PECO are not able to deliver electricity in a cost efficient manner and are unable to offset inflation and the cost of infrastructure investments with cost savings. Their ability to identify and implement cost savings is more challenging in the later years of the freeze and caps. Further, the rate freeze and caps will generally preclude rate recovery on any of its incremental capital investments through January 2, 2007. A mandatory RPS could negatively affect the cost of electricity purchased and sold by ComEd and PECO. Federal or state legislation mandating the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could result in significant changes in ComEds and PECOs businesses, including fuel cost and capital expenditures. ComEd and PECO continue to monitor discussions related to RPSs at the Federal and state levels. For additional information, see Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. Operating Risk ComEd and PECO may be subject to the risk of power supplier defaults and the unplanned costs associated with those defaults. Neither ComEd nor PECO own generation facilities. Both currently purchase their electricity from Generation pursuant to PPAs that expire at the end of 2006, in the case of ComEd, and the end of 2010, in the case of PECO. Assuming a competitive procurement process thereafter, both companies 43 Table of Contents may be subject to supplier defaults and supply risk. If a supplier defaults, ComEd or PECO, as the case may be, would be required to purchase replacement electricity in the spot market to meet the needs of its customers, which may increase electricity purchase and transmission costs and negatively affect results of operations. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or the FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission system through additional capital expenditures. ComEds and PECOs operating costs and their respective perception by customers and regulators are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the delivery of electricity and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. ComEd and PECO face the continued loss of electricity customers and associated revenues to other generation suppliers since those customers have the right to select their own generation supplier. ComEds and PECOs retail electric customers may purchase their electricity from alternative electric suppliers, although ComEd and PECO remain obligated to provide transmission and distribution service to customers in their service territories regardless of their generation supplier. ComEd and PECO are each generally obligated to provide generation and delivery service to customers in their service territories at fixed rates or, in some instances, market derived rates. In addition, customers who take service from an alternative supplier may later return to ComEd or PECO. The number of customers taking service from alternative electric suppliers depends in part on the prices being offered by those suppliers relative to the fixed prices that ComEd and PECO are authorized to charge by their state regulatory commissions. To the extent that customers leave traditional bundled tariffs and select a different electric supplier, ComEds and PECOs revenues are likely to decline, and revenues and gross margins could vary from period to period. The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers may decrease PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Gas rates charged to customers are comprised primarily of purchased gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to PECO, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to PECO. Purchased gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customers bill and may be adjusted quarterly, represent gas commodity costs that PECO recovers from customers. PECOs cash flows can be impacted by differences between the time period when gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. When purchased gas cost charges increase substantially, as they have throughout 44 Table of Contents 2005 in response to higher gas procurement costs incurred by PECO, customer usage may decrease, resulting in lower distribution charges and lower profit margins for PECO. In addition, increased purchased gas cost charges to customers also may result in increased bad debt expense from an increase in the number of uncollectible accounts receivable. The effects of weather and the related impact on electricity and gas usage may decrease ComEds and PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below moderate levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. As a corollary, moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd and PECO typically report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme weather conditions or storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting its ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs operations. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. ComEds and PECOs results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if either is unable to effectively manage their respective capital projects. Other Exelons and ComEds goodwill may become further impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $3.5 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2005. This goodwill was recognized and recorded in connection with the PECO / Unicom merger. With the proposed Merger with PSEG, it is anticipated that approximately $6 billion to $7 billion of additional goodwill will be recorded at Exelon across various business units. See the Merger section below for further discussion. Under GAAP, the goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, such as the one recorded during 2005, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. Under Illinois law, any impairment of goodwill has no impact on the determination of ComEds rate cap through the transition period. There is a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at ComEd, and at Exelon, in 2006 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, market prices for power, results of ComEds post 2006 rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. 45 Table of Contents Generation Market Transition Risks Generation will be exposed to increased market risk and price volatility after the expiration of significant purchase power arrangements after 2006. Generation sells a majority of its output to ComEd and PECO under long term PPAs. As a result of the pending expiration of the PPA between Generation and ComEd at the end of 2006, Generation will be exposed to increased commodity price risk associated with the electricity historically sold to serve ComEds load obligations. Generation will continue to be exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices for electricity after 2006 for the unhedged portion of its electricity trading portfolio. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in looking for hedging strategies to mitigate this risk. Accordingly, Generation may need to sell more electricity at market based prices than it currently does. Increased market sales and new contractual arrangements under a competitive model may adversely affect Generations credit risk due to an increase in the number of customers and the loss of a highly predictable revenue source. Although the order issued by the ICC authorizes the reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power after 2006 for ComEd, that decision remains subject to petitions for rehearing and is likely to be challenged in court. In addition, the Illinois General Assembly has held hearings concerning generation procurement post 2006 and it may choose to take further action on this issue. In April 2005, a proposed amendment to the Illinois Public Utilities Act was introduced in Committee hearings in the Illinois legislature, which, if enacted into law, would have extended the current rate freeze and transition period for an additional two years. However, the proposed amendment was defeated in Committee. Generation cannot predict the results of those challenges or whether the Illinois General Assembly might take further action that could have a material impact on Generation, including actions that would attempt to require Generation to enter into a full requirements PPA with ComEd to sell power at below market prices beginning in 2007. Generations business may be negatively affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features which may create trading barriers among the markets. The FERC has proposed initiatives, including RTOs, to encourage the development of large regional, uniform markets and to eliminate trade barriers. The FERCs effort to promote RTOs throughout the states has generated substantial opposition by some state regulators and other governmental bodies. In addition, efforts to develop a RTO have been abandoned in certain regions. Generation supports the development of RTOs and implementation of standard market protocols for these regions, and others, but cannot predict their success or whether they will lead to the development of the large, successful wholesale markets. Approximately 79% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM, following PJMs expansion to the Midwest markets in 2004. The PJM market has been the most successful and liquid regional market. Generations future results of operations may be negatively affected by the continued expansion of that market or the implementation of any market changes mandated by the FERC. 46 Table of Contents Provider of Last Resort. As discussed above, ComEd and PECO have POLR obligations that they have effectively transferred to Generation through full requirements contracts. Because the choice of an electricity generation supplier lies with the customer, planning to meet these obligations has a higher level of uncertainty than that traditionally experienced due to weather and the economy. It is difficult for Generation to plan the electricity demand of ComEd and PECO customers. The uncertainty regarding the amount of ComEd and PECO load for which Generation must provide increases Generations costs and may limit its sales opportunities. A significant under estimation of the electric load requirements of ComEd and PECO could result in Generation not having enough power to cover its supply obligation, in which case Generation would be required to buy power from third parties or in the spot markets at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be as favorable, or as manageable, as Generations long term supply expenses and thus could increase Generations total costs. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers (IPP) have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. These new generating facilities may be more efficient than Generations facilities. The introduction of new technologies could increase competition, which could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generations financial performance depends on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. As the demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Both Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built at the risk of market participants. Any construction of new generating facilities by Generation would be subject to market concentration tests administered by the FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by the FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Generations financial growth depends on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. Nuclear Operations Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have a higher operating cost than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Refueling outages. Outages at nuclear stations to replenish fuel require the station to be turned off. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 24 days in duration. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 24 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual 47 Table of Contents capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the AmerGen plants and the co owned plants, was eleven in 2005 with eleven planned for 2006. The projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation will increase in 2006 compared to 2005 by approximately $39 million as Generation continues to invest in equipment upgrades to ensure safe reliable operations. Maintenance expenditures are expected to increase by approximately $67 million in 2006 compared to 2005 as a result of inflationary cost increases and one additional planned nuclear outage at the nuclear stations operated and wholly owned by Generation. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization and or increased outage costs. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Spent nuclear fuel storage. Generation incurs costs on an annual basis for the storage of spent nuclear fuel. Under the terms of the settlement reached with the DOE in 2004, Generation is being reimbursed for costs of spent fuel storage only after costs are incurred and only for costs resulting from DOE delays in accepting the fuel. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE under the settlement. Also, the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may affect the ability to fully decommission the nuclear units. In addition, the State of Nevada recently challenged the NRCs waste confidence rule, 10 CFR 51.23, pursuant to which, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basis or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. The rule remains in place at this time, and is unlikely to be revised in the near future unless the D.C. Circuit overturns the NRCs denial of Nevadas petition. Under the waste confidence rule, the NRC has made a determination that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license, of that reactor at its spent fuel storage basis or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. If the NRC changes or is forced to change its determination it could affect the nuclear generating stations ability to store additional waste. License Renewals. Generations nuclear facilities are currently operating under 40 year NRC licenses. Generation has applied for and received 20 year renewals for the licenses that will be expiring in the next ten years or, in the case of Oyster Creek, an order that will permit Oyster Creek to operate beyond its license expiration in April 2009 if the NRC has not completed reviewing the application for renewal. Generation intends to evaluate opportunities, as permitted by the NRC, to apply for license renewals for some or all of the remaining licenses. If the renewals are granted, Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of the renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated until the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning payments. Should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. 48 Table of Contents Environmental risk. In July 2004, the EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. This rule establishes national requirements for reducing the adverse environmental impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing power plants. The rule identifies particular standards of performance with respect to entrainment and impingement and requires each facility to monitor and validate this performance in future years. The requirements will be implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. All of Generations power generation facilities with cooling water systems are subject to the regulations. Facilities without closed cycle recirculating systems (e.g. cooling towers) are potentially most affected. Those facilities are Clinton, Cromby Dresden, Eddystone, Fairless Hills, Handley, Mountain Creek, New Boston, Oyster Creek, Peach Bottom, Quad Cities and Salem. During the NJDEP system permit renewal process for both Salem and Oyster Creek, the NJDEP primarily concluded that closed cycle cooling for Salem and Oyster Creek and environmental restoration for Oyster Creek are the only viable compliance options for Section 316(b). See ITEM 1. Business section for further details on Environmental Water Regulations. AmerGen and PSEG have not made a determination regarding how compliance of Section 316(b) will be met for Oyster Creek and Salem. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations requires the retrofitting of Oyster Creek and Salems cooling water intake structure, or extensive wetlands restoration, this could result in material costs of compliance. In addition, the amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to renew the operating license. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. In January 2004, the NRC issued a letter to PSEG to conduct a review of its Salem facility, of which Generation owns 42.59%, to assess the workplace environment for raising and addressing safety issues. Since that time, PSEG has worked with the NRC under its oversight program to address the matters, which focus on a safety conscious work environment, raised by the NRCs letter. Throughout 2005, PSEG has and will continue to provide updated information to the NRC as required under their workplan. The spent fuel pool at each Salem Unit has an installed leakage collection system. This normal leakage path was found to be obstructed, causing concern about the extent of leakage contact with the fuel handling buildings concrete structure. PSEG is developing a solution to maintain the design function of the leakage collection system and is investigating the extent of any structural degradation caused by the leakage. The investigation should take approximately one year. If any significant degradation is identified, the repair costs to the owners of the facility could be material. The NRC issued Information Notice 2004 05 in March 2004 concerning this emerging industry issue and Generation cannot predict what further actions the NRC may take on this matter. 49 Table of Contents Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generations, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. The Price Anderson Act limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners for claims that could arise from a single incident. The limit as of December 31, 2005 is $10.76 billion and is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $10.76 billion limit. Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations distribution for 2005 was $40 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Income. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. The ICC permits ComEd, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect funds from their customers, which are deposited in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation. Collections by ComEd are limited and permitted only through 2006. The collections by ComEd and PECO are based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, other than AmerGen facilities. The ICC permitted ComEd to recover $73 million per year from retail customers for decommissioning for the years 2001 through 2004 and, depending upon the portion of the output of certain generating stations taken by ComEd, up to $73 million in 2005 and 2006. Because ComEd did not take all of the output of these stations, actual collections were $68 million in 2005 and are expected to be approximately the same in 2006. Subsequent to 2006, there will be no further recoveries of decommissioning costs from ComEds customers. PECO is currently recovering $33 million annually for nuclear decommissioning. Generation expects that these collections will continue through the operating license life of each of the former PECO units, with adjustments every five years to reflect changes in cost estimates and decommissioning trust fund performance. These trust funds, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin in 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $5.6 billion of investments in trust funds at December 31, 2005. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2005, one of Generations 23 units is currently underfunded by less than three percent with respect to NRC Funding Levels. Generation will submit its next biennial report to the NRC in March 2006. 50 Table of Contents In 2003, GAO published a study on the NRCs need for more effective analyses to ensure the adequate accumulation of funds to decommission nuclear power plants in the United States. As it has in the past, the GAO concluded that accumulated and future proposed funding was inadequate to achieve NRC Funding Levels at a number of U.S. nuclear plants, including a number of Generations plants. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, when decommissioning activities are initiated, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to provide other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Other Operating Risks Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. The majority of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under long term PPAs with ComEd and PECO. To the extent portions of the portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent its portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of ComEd and PECO, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation relies on the availability of electric transmission facilities that it does not own or control to deliver its wholesale electric power to the purchasers of the power, which may adversely affect its ability to deliver power to its customers. Generation depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other companies, including ComEd and PECO, to deliver the power that it sells at wholesale. If transmission at these facilities is disrupted or transmission capacity is inadequate, Generation may not be able to sell and deliver its wholesale power. The North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at a point within the grid can cause a systemic response that results in an extensive power outage. If a regions power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, Generations recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. In addition, if restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. The FERC has commenced electric transmission initiatives that require electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales. Although these initiatives are designed to encourage wholesale market transactions for electricity, access to transmission systems may in fact not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. Generation also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity under long and short term contracts in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation 51 Table of Contents that is not used to meet its commitments to ComEd and PECO are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. In the event that lower wholesale prices of electricity reduce Generations current or forecasted cash flows, the carrying value of Generations generating units may be determined to be impaired and Generation would be required to incur an impairment loss. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity may reflect the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money or energy will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell power in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. Due to the termination of its PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006 and its obligation to auction off output from its nuclear plants mandated by the FERC order approving the Merger, Generations liquidity requirements and credit risk exposure could increase. In addition, the retail businesses of Exelon Energy subject Generation to credit risk resulting from a different customer base. Risk of Credit Downgrades. Generations trading business is required to meet credit quality standards. If it were to lose its investment grade credit rating or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, Generation would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect its liquidity. If Generation had lost its investment grade credit as of December 31, 2005, it would have been required to provide approximately $1,388 million in collateral. Immature Markets. Certain wholesale spot markets are new and evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. While the FERC has proposed initiatives to standardize wholesale spot markets, Generation cannot predict whether that effort will be successful, what form any of these markets will eventually take or what roles Generation will play in them. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. The Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. This activity, along with the effects of any specialized accounting for trading contracts, may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements to ComEd and PECO. Extreme 52 Table of Contents weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Power Teams risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its energy trading activities. Power Teams power trading (including fuel procurement and power marketing) activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage its exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its power trading and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generations business is capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations results of operations could be adversely affected if Generation were unable to effectively manage its capital projects. General Business The following risk factors may adversely impact all of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Results of operations may be negatively affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. As a result of the rate freezes for ComEd and caps for PECO under which the businesses operate and price pressures due to competition, ComEd and PECO may not be able to pass the costs of inflation through to their customers. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, which are increasing at a rate that greatly exceeds the rate of general inflation. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs or other increasing costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. Market performance may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants and under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of those assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Exelons holding company structure could limit its ability to pay dividends. Exelon is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Exelons ability to pay dividends on 53 Table of Contents its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. Under applicable Federal law, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from the amount of retained, undistributed or current earnings. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2005, a new board of directors with responsibilities solely for ComEd was selected. The ComEd board of directors may elect to adopt a different dividend policy. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. In addition, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action, such as that proposed in The Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005, could require Generation to contribute to a fund with a material contribution to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. For additional information regarding environmental matters, see Environmental Regulation in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. War, acts and threats of terrorism and natural disaster may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. Exelon does not know the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Exelons operations. Additionally, the continuing military activity in Iraq and other wars may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Exelons revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect Exelons results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in increased costs. Additionally, Exelon is affected by changes in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes, storms and other natural disaster in its service territory and throughout the U.S. Severe weather or other 54 Table of Contents natural disasters could be destructive which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operation Executive Overview in ITEM 7 for additional information on the expected impact due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Changes in the availability and cost of insurance mean that the Registrants have greater exposure to economic loss due to property damage and liability. The Registrants carry property damage and liability insurance for their properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, the costs of obtaining such insurance may be higher and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. The Registrants are self insured for deductibles and to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under their property damage and liability insurance, together with the deductible, could negatively affect their results of operations. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. Other than as noted below, the Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Increases in state income taxes. Due to the revenue needs of the states in which the Registrants operate, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being considered. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase state income tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. 1999 Sale of the Fossil Generating Assets. Exelon, through its ComEd subsidiary, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), to defer the taxation of the gain realized on the 1999 sale of its fossil generation assets. Exelons ability to continue to defer all or a portion of this liability depends on whether its treatment of a portion of the sale proceeds, as having been received in connection with an involuntary conversion, is proper pursuant to applicable law. Exelons ability to continue to defer the remainder of this liability may depend in part on whether its tax characterization of a lease transaction it entered into in connection with the sale is proper pursuant to applicable law. A successful IRS challenge to ComEds positions would have the impact of accelerating future income tax payments and increasing interest expense related to the deferred tax liability that becomes current. Federal tax returns covering the period of the 1999 sale are currently under IRS audit. Final resolution of this matter is not anticipated for several years. Exelons potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $951 million. It is presently unclear the extent to which the IRS will seek to disallow the deferral of tax liability resulting from the 1999 sale of fossil generating assets, if at all, and if it were to do so, the extent to which any 55 Table of Contents such challenge would be successful. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, it could negatively impact Exelons results of operations by as much as $135 million (after tax). See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries has investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45k of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. Exelons right to tax credits generated by the facilities was recorded as intangible assets which are amortized as the tax credits are earned. Section 45k contains a provision under which tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. Recent events, such as terrorism, natural disasters and strong worldwide demand, have significantly increased the price of domestic crude oil and, therefore, have created uncertainty as to the value of future synthetic fuel tax credits and the net carrying value of the intangible assets. Exelon estimates that there could be a significant phase out of tax credits in 2006 and 2007 based on the expected futures prices. Absent any efforts to mitigate price exposure, a phase out could result in the reduction of non operating net income generated by the investments and could result in substantial non operating losses in 2006 and 2007 in the event all tax credits are completely eliminated. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Executive Overview and Liquidity and Capital Resources in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for further detail. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance of these guaranteed obligations by the third parties, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance could have a material impact on the financial statements of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding guarantees. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. The Registrants may continue to pursue investments that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. With the repeal of PUHCA, the Registrants are free to make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that were formerly not permitted under PUHCA and that might present more risk than the types of investments and mergers and acquisitions that were permitted under PUHCA. However, with the repeal of PUHCA, it is possible that the public utility commissions of each state may impose certain other restrictions on the investments that the Registrants may make. On December 20, 2004, Exelon announced the execution of the Merger Agreement with PSEG. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and PSEG are integrated in an efficient and effective manner, as well as general competitive factors in the market place. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits from the Merger or other strategic investments could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. See the Proposed Merger with PSEG section below for further risk information. Proposed Merger with PSEG The business of PSEG and its subsidiaries is subject to various risks similar to risks associated with the business of Exelon and its subsidiaries. Upon completion of the Merger, the combined 56 Table of Contents company will be subject to these risks of PSEG and its subsidiaries. In addition, there are various risks associated with the proposed Merger including the following: Exelon and PSEG could fail to complete the Merger for various reasons, which could have an adverse effect on Exelon. Several events must occur before the Merger may be completed, such as the receipt of the required regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of various conditions to the obligations of each of Exelon and PSEG, including: the other party having performed in all material respects all agreements required to be performed by it under the Merger Agreement, the representations and warranties of the other party contained in the Merger Agreement being true and correct in all material respects, the absence of any material adverse effect having occurred to the other company since the date of the Merger Agreement and the approval by the NJBPU that the combined company will be able to recover Public Service Electric and Gas Companys pension and other postretirement benefit expenses (as discussed in more detail below). In addition, the Merger Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to completion of the Merger by mutual written consent of Exelon and PSEG, by either party if a governmental authority takes any final action prohibiting the Merger, by either party if a governmental authority approves the Merger but issues a burdensome order (as defined in the Merger Agreement), or by either party if the Merger is not completed by June 20, 2006. In addition, the Merger Agreement may be terminated by Exelon for various specific reasons, including a material breach of any agreement of PSEG in the Merger Agreement which would result in a closing condition to the Merger not being satisfied and which cannot be cured by PSEG within 30 days after written notice is given by Exelon. PSEG can terminate the Merger Agreement for various specific reasons, including a material breach of any agreement of Exelon in the Merger Agreement which would result in a closing condition to the Merger not being satisfied and which cannot be cured by Exelon within 30 days after written notice is given by PSEG. If the Merger were unable to be consummated, Exelon would be required to expense previously capitalized Merger costs, totaling $46 million at December 31, 2005, which would negatively impact its results of operations. Exelon may be unable to successfully integrate PSEGs operations or realize all of the synergies expected to be derived from the Merger. The Merger involves the integration of two companies that previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining each companys operations include: the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; and integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds. In addition, the integration of some of Exelons and PSEGs operations will require regulatory approval. Exelon recognizes that the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined companys businesses. The diversion of managements attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the Merger and the integration of the two companies operations could have an adverse effect on the business, 57 Table of Contents financial condition, operating results and prospects of the combined company after the Merger, and could impair the combined companys ability to realize the expected synergies and other anticipated benefits of the Merger. The application of the purchase method of accounting will result in approximately $6 billion to $7 billion of additional goodwill, which could become impaired following completion of the Merger. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price paid by Exelon in the Merger will be allocated to PSEGs tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the Merger. The excess of the purchase price over those fair values will be recorded as goodwill. Exelon expects that the Merger will result in the creation of approximately $6 billion to $7 billion in goodwill based upon the assumptions as of the date of the completion of the Merger. As a result, upon completion of the Merger, the combined company will have approximately $10 billion to $11 billion in goodwill. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, the combined company may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on the combined companys operating results. The combined company may be unable to obtain permission from the NJBPU to recover Public Service Electric and Gas Companys pension and other postretirement benefit expenses, which could have an adverse effect on its cash flow and results of operation. Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), a public utility subsidiary of PSEG, is permitted by its current NJBPU rate order to recover through its rates the amortized portion of its pension expenses and other postretirement benefit expenses associated with its pension and postretirement obligations. As a result of the application of the purchase method of accounting to these costs, the recognition of certain unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit expenses will be accelerated and, as a result, will no longer be reflected in the calculation of pension and other postretirement benefit expenses that PSE&Gs current rate order permits it to recover. PSE&G estimates that it could have as much as $1.4 billion in unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit expenses that it may be unable to recover following completion of the Merger unless it obtains approval from the NJBPU to permit continued recovery of those expenses in the manner the current rate order permits. Exelon and PSEG have made it a condition to completion of the Merger that PSE&G receive an order from the NJBPU permitting PSE&G to continue to recover the pension expenses as it did prior to completion of the Merger. PSE&G has requested such an order in the Merger approval proceeding, and no party has objected to the request for recovery, provided that the requested recovery of pension and postretirement expense would not be expected to increase rates above current levels. However, there is no assurance that PSE&G will receive such an order from NJBPU or that if it does receive such an order, it will be permitted in future rate proceedings to continue to recover these expenses. Failure to obtain or maintain the right to recover the pension and other postretirement benefit expenses would have an adverse effect on the combined companys cash flow and results of operations. Exelon will incur significant transaction and Merger related integration costs in connection with the Merger. Exelon expects to incur costs associated with consummating the Merger and integrating the operations of Exelon and PSEG, as well as approximately $41 million in transaction costs. The estimated $41 million of transaction costs incurred by Exelon will be included as a component of the purchase price for purposes of purchase accounting. The amount of transaction fees expected to be incurred is a preliminary estimate and subject to change. Exelon has estimated the integration costs 58 Table of Contents associated with the Merger to be approximately $700 million over a period of four years, with approximately $400 million being incurred in the first full year of operations following completion of the Merger. These estimates may change, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of the two companies. Although Exelon believes that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset incremental transaction and Merger related costs over time, it cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. Exelon and PSEG will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while completion of the Merger is pending that could adversely affect their businesses. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Exelon and PSEG and, consequently, on the combined company. Although Exelon and PSEG have taken and will continue to take steps to reduce adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair Exelons and PSEGs ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with Exelon and PSEG to seek to change existing business relationships with Exelon and PSEG. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Merger, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. If, despite Exelons and PSEGs retention efforts, key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, the combined companys business could be seriously harmed. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts Exelon and PSEG from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Merger occurs or the Merger Agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent Exelon and PSEG from pursuing attractive business opportunities and making other changes to their businesses that may arise prior to completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. The combined company and its subsidiaries may be subject to adverse regulatory conditions following completion of the Merger. Before the Merger may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from various utility regulatory, antitrust and other authorities in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. The governmental entities from which these approvals are required may fail to approve the Merger, impose conditions on completion of the Merger, or require changes to the terms of the Merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Merger, any of which might have a material adverse effect on the combined company following completion of the Merger. On July 1, 2005, the FERC issued an order approving the Merger and the market concentration mitigation plan proposed by Exelon and PSEG. Exelon, PSEG and the combined company may incur significant expenses in completing the divestitures contemplated by the market concentration mitigation plan. In addition, they may have difficulty in successfully completing the divestitures for a variety of reasons and the amounts that may be realized from the divestitures will depend on market conditions that fluctuate. As a result, the pricing and other terms realized on the divestiture may be materially different from what is currently expected. On September 13, 2005, PECO filed before the PAPUC a partial settlement regarding PECOs distribution and transmission rates through 2010 and made other financial commitments contingent upon the approval of PECOs application to the PAPUC related to the Merger. See Partial Settlements Before the PAPUC in ITEM 1. Business for further detail. The settlement and the Merger have received PAPUC approval but the settlement will not become effective unless the Merger is completed. The completion of this settlement will negatively impact the results of operations of PECO and the combined company. 59 Table of Contents Under the combined companys holding company structure, the payment of dividends to shareholders will be subject to the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends. The combined company will be a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of the combined companys operations will be conducted by its subsidiaries. The combined companys ability to pay dividends on its common stock will depend on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. These subsidiaries payments of dividends to the combined company in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items impacting retained earnings. Under applicable law, PSE&G can pay dividends only from the amount of retained, undistributed or current earnings. Following completion of the Merger, a significant loss recorded at PSE&G may limit the dividends that PSE&G can distribute to Exelon. As a condition to approval of other utility mergers, the NJBPU has imposed dividends restrictions. Exelon can give no assurance that a similar restriction will not be imposed on PSE&G. In addition, PSEG Energy Holdings LLC and its subsidiaries are parties to debt agreements that restrict their ability to pay dividends, make cash distributions or otherwise transfer funds to PSEG, or after completion of the Merger, the combined company. PSEGs business is, and the combined companys business will be, subject to extensive regulation that will affect operations and costs. The combined company will be subject to regulation by FERC and the NRC, by Federal, state and local authorities under environmental laws and by state public utility commissions under laws regulating Exelons and PSEGs distribution businesses, among others. See Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including its rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings that are contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which introduce time delays in effecting rate changes as well as uncertainty as to the ultimate result above for further discussion. Additionally, the combined company will also be subject to additional risks currently applicable to PSEG as described below. PSE&Gs New Jersey base rates for electric and gas distribution are subject to regulation by the NJBPU and are effective until a new base rate case is filed and concluded. In addition, limited categories of costs are recovered through adjustment charges that are periodically reset to reflect current costs. The inability to recover material costs not included in base rates or adjustment clauses could have an adverse effect on cash flow and financial position of the combined company. PSEG Global LLC (PSEG Global) is a subsidiary of PSEG with rate regulated electric and gas distribution facilities located in various foreign jurisdictions. Governmental authorities establish rates charged to customers. While these rates are designed to cover all operating costs and provide a return, considerable fiscal and cash uncertainties in certain countries due to local regulation or economic, political and social crisis could have an adverse impact. In addition, future rates may not be adequate to provide cash flow to pay principal and interest on the debt of PSEG Globals subsidiaries and affiliates or to enable its subsidiaries and affiliates to comply with the terms of debt agreements. The combined companys generation business may incur additional costs and liabilities due to its ownership and operation of additional nuclear facilities. Following completion of the Merger, it is expected that, prior to giving effect to any divestitures required by governmental authorities to complete the Merger and prior to implementing the combined companys anticipated strategy of divesting assets that do not meet the strategic objectives of the combined company, approximately 46% of the combined companys owned generation capacity will be nuclear and the combined company will own approximately 20% of the nuclear generation capacity in the United States. To the extent there are divestitures of fossil assets, such as described in The 60 Table of Contents combined company may be subject to adverse regulatory conditions following completion of the Merger above, the percentage of the combined companys owned generation capacity which is nuclear will increase. Accordingly, the combined company will have greater exposure to risks that adversely affect the nuclear generation industry compared to other companies in the utility industry. See Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities above for further discussion. The combined companys generation business may incur additional costs and liabilities and be exposed to volatility as a result of expanded participation in the wholesale energy markets. Generation and PSEG, and the combined company, will sell electricity in the wholesale energy markets. Generation and PSEG are subject to many of the same risks in the wholesale energy markets. See Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations above for further discussion. Following completion of the proposed Merger, the combined company will be subject to additional risks associated with participation in the wholesale energy markets as described below. The trading business of the combined company after the Merger will be required to meet credit quality standards. If the generation business of the combined company were to lose its investment grade credit rating or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect the liquidity of the combined company. See Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations above for further discussion. If PSEG Power had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2005, it would have been required to provide approximately $916 million in additional collateral. Due to the increased size of the combined companys generation business, a trading counterparty that does business with both Generation and PSEG Power might impose credit limits or other credit quality standards on the combined companys generation business that are more restrictive than would otherwise be applicable to Generation and PSEG Power as separate operations. The IRS might successfully challenge certain leveraged lease transactions entered into by PSEG, which could have a material adverse impact on the combined companys operating results. From 1996 through 2002, PSEG, through its indirect wholly owned subsidiary, PSEG Resources, entered into a number of leveraged lease transactions in the ordinary course of business. Certain of those transactions that were previously entered into are similar to a type that the IRS subsequently announced its intention to challenge, and PSEG understands that similar transactions entered into by other companies have been the subject of review and challenge by the IRS. The IRS is presently reviewing the tax returns of PSEG and its subsidiaries for tax years 1997 through 2000, years when Resources entered into some of these transactions. On September 27, 2005, the IRS proposed to disallow PSEGs deductions associated with certain of these leveraged leases which have been designated by the IRS as listed transactions. Other lease transactions within the audit period are still under the IRSs review. The IRS may propose additional disallowances in the future. If deductions associated with these lease transactions entered into by PSEG are successfully challenged by the IRS, it could have a material adverse impact on the combined companys financial position, results of operations and net cash flows and could impact future returns on these transactions. 61 Table of Contents If the tax benefits associated with the above referenced lease transactions were completely disallowed by the IRS, approximately $660 million of deferred tax liabilities that have been recorded under leveraged lease accounting through December 31, 2005 could become currently payable. In addition, interest expense of approximately $86 million, after tax, and penalties could be assessed. The FASB is currently considering a modification to GAAP for leveraged leases. Under present GAAP, a tax settlement with the IRS that results in a change in the timing of tax liabilities would not require an accounting repricing of the lease investment. As such, income from the lease would continue to accrue at the original economic yield computed for the lease and there would be no write down of the lease investment. The proposal concerning leveraged leases would require a lessor to perform a recalculation of a leveraged lease when there is a change in the timing of the realization of tax benefits generated by the lease. It would also require a lessor to re evaluate classification as a leveraged lease when a recalculation of the lease is performed. If implemented in its present form, the impact of this proposal on the combined company could be material. Because a portion of the combined companys business will be conducted outside the United States, adverse international developments could negatively impact its business. Following completion of the Merger and prior to implementing the combined companys anticipated strategy of divesting assets that do not meet the strategic objectives of the combined company, it is expected that revenues generated from sources outside the United States and assets located outside the United States will each be less than 5% of the total combined company, most of which will be held by and generated from PSEG Global. The economic and political conditions in certain countries where PSEG Global has interests present risks that may be different from, or more extensive than, those found in the United States including: foreign currency fluctuations; risks of war; expropriation; nationalization; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; and changes in law or tax policy. Changes in the legal environment in foreign countries in which PSEG Global has investments could make it more difficult to obtain non recourse project refinancing on suitable terms and could impair PSEG Globals ability to enforce its rights under agreements relating to such projects. In addition, such changes could make it more difficult for the combined company to pursue an accelerated strategy of selling certain of PSEG Globals investments that no longer meet the strategic objectives of the combined company. Operations in foreign countries also present risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings. In countries in which PSEG Global operates in the future, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect PSEG Globals ability to convert its cash distributions to United States dollars or other freely convertible currencies, or to move funds offshore from these countries. Furthermore, the central bank of any of these countries may have the authority to suspend, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on foreign exchange transactions or to 62 Table of Contents approve distributions to foreign investors. Although PSEG Global generally seeks to structure purchase power contracts and other project revenue agreements to provide for payments to be made in, or indexed to, United States dollars or a currency freely convertible into United States dollars, its ability to do so in all cases may be limited. The combined companys results of operations may be affected by its ability to divest unprofitable or under performing businesses. The combined company will pursue opportunities to sell businesses and assets that either do not meet the strategic objectives of the combined company or are unprofitable. The combined company may incur significant expenses in divesting these businesses. The combined company also may be unable to successfully implement this strategy for a number of reasons, including an inability to locate appropriate buyers or to negotiate acceptable terms for the transactions. In addition, the amounts that the combined company may realize from a divestiture are subject to fluctuating market conditions that may contribute to pricing and other terms that are materially different than expected and could result in a loss on the sale. Timing of any divestitures may positively or negatively affect the combined companys results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ComEd and PECO The electric substations and a portion of the transmission rights of way are located on property owned by ComEd and PECO. A significant portion of the electric transmission and distribution facilities is located over or under highways, streets, other public places or property owned by others, for which permits, grants, easements or licenses, deemed satisfactory by ComEd and PECO but without examination of underlying land titles, have been obtained. Transmission and Distribution ComEds and PECOs higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2005 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles ComEd 765,000 90 345,000 2,621 138,000 2,866 69,000 149 PECO 500,000 188 (a) 220,000 541 132,000 156 66,000 153 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership of 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership of 151 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,082 circuit miles of overhead lines and 33,804 cable miles of underground lines. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,873 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,201 cable miles of underground lines. 63 Table of Contents Gas The following table sets forth PECOs gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2005: Pipeline Miles Transmission 31 Distribution 6,528 Service piping 5,377 Total 11,936 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania which has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. Mortgages The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first mortgage bonds are issued. Insurance ComEd and PECO maintain property insurance against loss or damage to their respective properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd and PECO are self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd or PECO. Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2005. The table does not include properties held by equity method investments: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type PrimaryDispatch Type (e) Net GenerationCapacity (MW) (b) Nuclear (c) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,030 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,742 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,302 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,135 (d) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,232 (d) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 969 (d) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,856 (continued on next page) 64 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type PrimaryDispatch Type (e) Net GenerationCapacity (MW) (b) Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (d) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Base load 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Base load 588 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 916 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 400 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 358 (d) Mountain Creek 2, 6, 7 Dallas, TX 3 Gas Peaking 273 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 550 New Boston 1 South Boston, MA 1 Gas Intermediate 353 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (d) 5,157 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 384 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 30 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 160 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil Peaking 110 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Gas Peaking 13 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 72.00 Gas Peaking 312 (f) Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,466 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co. MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 536 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,071 1,607 Total 126 25,099 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (c) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (d) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. 65 Table of Contents (e) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the day time higher load hours, and consequently produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units are plants that usually house low efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels, or pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. (f) Includes the total capacity of the Southeast Chicago Energy Project. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the property deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are parties to various regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of business. They are also parties to regulatory proceedings in connection with the Merger. Other material legal and regulatory proceedings are summarized below. Exelon, PECO and Generation PJM Billing Dispute. In December 2004, Exelon filed a complaint against PJM and PPL Electric with the FERC alleging that PJM had overcharged Exelon from April 1998 through May 2003 as a result of a billing error. Specifically, the complaint alleges that PJM mistakenly identified PPL Electrics Elroy substation transformer as belonging to Exelon and that, as a consequence, during times of congestion, Exelons bills for transmission congestion from PJM erroneously reflected energy that PPL Electric took from the Elroy substation and used to serve PPL Electrics load. The complaint requested the FERC, among other things, to direct PPL Electric to refund to PJM $39.1 million, plus interest of approximately $8 million, and for PJM to refund these same amounts to Exelon. On September 14, 2005, Exelon and PPL Electric filed a proposed settlement of this matter with the FERC. If the settlement is approved by the FERC, Exelon will receive a total of $40.5 million, plus interest, over the next four years from two funding sources: (a) $33 million from PPL Electric; and (b) $7.5 million from PJM market participants. It is anticipated that approximately 75% and 25% of the proposed settlement will be received by Generation and PECO, respectively. Both charges will be collected and paid by PJM over a four year period following FERC approval of the settlement with interest on the unpaid principal accruing over the collection and payment period. As Exelon is a market participant in PJM, if this settlement is approved by the FERC, the net amount of the settlement to be received by Exelon will be reduced by Exelons portion of the $7.5 million described above. Pending FERC approval of the settlement, Exelon has not recorded any receivables associated with this matter. ComEd Illinois Procurement Filing. On January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power by ComEd for the time period 66 Table of Contents after 2006. Several parties have indicated that they will petition the ICC for rehearing and will challenge the ICC decision in court. ComEd has also petitioned for rehearing of the ICC decision on certain issues, but that petition was denied by the ICC on February 8, 2006. It is also possible that interested parties could introduce legislation in Illinois in attempt to modify the procurement process or the rates that ComEd may charge consumers for the power ComEd purchases to meet the needs of consumers. The Illinois General Assembly has held hearings concerning generation procurement after 2006, and it may take action on this issue. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information Illinois Rate Case. On August 31, 2005, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC, which seeks, among other things, to allocate the costs of delivering electricity and to adjust ComEds rates for delivering electricity effective January 2, 2007 (Rate Case). Several intervenors in the Rate Case, including the ICC staff and the Illinois Attorney General, have suggested, and provided testimony, that ComEds rates should actually be reduced. The commodity component of ComEds rates will be established by the reverse auction process in accordance with the ICC order in the Procurement Case, assuming the ICC order on this matter is upheld upon appeal. The results of the Rate Case are not expected to be known until at least the third quarter of 2006. PECO and Generation Real Estate Tax Appeals. PECO and Generation each have been challenging real estate taxes assessed on nuclear plants. PECO is involved in litigation in which it is contesting taxes assessed in 1997 under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Realty Tax Act of March 4, 1971, as amended (PURTA), and has appealed local real estate assessments for 1998 and 1999 on the Limerick Generating Station (Montgomery County, PA) (Limerick) and Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station (York County, PA) (Peach Bottom) plants. Generation is involved in real estate tax appeals for 2000 through 2004, also regarding the valuation of its Limerick and Peach Bottom plants, Quad Cities Station (Rock Island County, IL), Three Mile Island Nuclear Station (Dauphin County, PA) (TMI) and Oyster Creek Station (Forked River, NJ). PECO and Generation have reached settlements with the taxing authorities over the Limerick real estate assessments for 1998 and 1999. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, all Limerick tax appeals were dismissed by the state court, and PECO has agreed to an additional payment of approximately $3 million for the two PURTA years and Generation has agreed to make additional payments in lieu of taxes for years 2005 through 2008. As a result of the Limerick settlement, PECO reduced its real estate tax reserve balance by $6 million in the first quarter of 2005. In addition, Generation has reached a settlement with the taxing authorities over the TMI real estate assessment, which has been approved by the state court. As a result of the TMI settlement, Generation reduced its real estate tax reserve balance by $6 million in the first quarter of 2005. Generation reached an agreement with the taxing authorities for all years under appeal for the Quad Cities station and the court approved the agreement on December 9, 2005. Generation also recently reached an agreement with the taxing authorities for all years under appeal for the Oyster Creek station an order implementing Oyster Creeks property tax settlement was entered on December 16, 2005. In addition, on December 22, 2005, Generation reached an agreement for the 2005 tax year with the taxing authorities for LaSalle County Station, and is working towards court approval by the end of the first quarter of 2006. PECO and Generation believe their reserve balances for other exposures associated with real estate taxes as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 reflect the probable expected outcome of the litigation and appeals proceedings in accordance with SFAS No. 5. The ultimate outcome of such matters, however, could result in unfavorable or favorable adjustments to the consolidated financial statements of Exelon, PECO and Generation and such adjustments could be material. Reverse Employment Discrimination Claim. On April 4, 2005, one employee of PECO and four employees of Generation commenced suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of 67 Table of Contents Pennsylvania, alleging that they were subjected to a practice of reverse employment discrimination which denied promotional opportunities to older white male employees, purportedly in violation of various Federal antidiscrimination statutes and the Pennsylvania Human Relations Act. The plaintiffs filed the action individually and on behalf of a putative class that includes all white males currently or previously employed with any Exelon companies in the United States who were at least 40 years old on April 4, 2003 and who either applied for or were eligible to apply for supervisory positions in March 2003 and thereafter, continuing to the present day, and were not selected for these positions. The defendants have filed an answer denying all liability and are proceeding with discovery pertaining to the class allegations and the named plaintiffs individual claims. In December 2005, the Court ordered the case to be suspended until April 3, 2006 while the parties attempt to resolve this matter through non binding mediation. As this case is in the early stages, Exelon cannot predict the outcome; however, Exelon does not expect this claim to have a material adverse effect on Exelons financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Generation Cotter Corporation Litigation. During 1989 and 1991, actions were brought in Federal and state courts in Colorado against ComEd and its subsidiary, Cotter, seeking unspecified damages and injunctive relief based on allegations that Cotter permitted radioactive and other hazardous material to be released from its mill into areas owned or occupied by the plaintiffs, resulting in property damage and potential adverse health effects. On February 18, 2000, ComEd sold Cotter to an unaffiliated third party. As part of the sale, ComEd agreed to indemnify Cotter for any liability incurred by Cotter as a result of any liability arising in connection with the West Lake Landfill. In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, this responsibility to indemnify Cotter was transferred by ComEd to Generation. Several of the actions resulted in nominal jury verdicts or were settled or dismissed. One action resulted in an award for the plaintiffs of a more substantial amount, but was reversed on April 22, 2003 by the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals and remanded for retrial. An appeal by the plaintiffs to the United States Supreme Court was denied on November 10, 2003. In October 2004, a settlement of the claims of all Cotter plaintiffs was reached and approved by the Federal District Court in Colorado. This settlement amount approximated Generations reserve for this matter. Settlements with the two primary Cotter insurers were also concluded, under which they paid Generation approximately $20 million, which covered the amount previously reserved as well as certain other costs incurred by Generation related to this matter. Neither of these settlements affects the environmental liability associated with the West Lake Landfill. The EPA has advised Cotter that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. Cotter, along with three other companies identified by the EPA as potentially responsible parties (PRPs), has submitted a draft feasibility study addressing options for remediation of the site. The estimated costs of the anticipated remediation strategy for the site range up to $22 million. Once a remedy is selected, it is expected that the PRPs will agree on an allocation of responsibility for the costs. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation. Asbestos Personal Injury Claims. Like many other industrial companies, Generation is a defendant in personal injury actions related to asbestos exposure in certain facilities that are currently owned by Generation or were previously owned by ComEd and PECO. The vast majority of these asbestos related bodily injury claims allege a variety of lung related diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos by former third party contractors involved in the original construction or maintenance of the facilities. The construction of these facilities primarily occurred between 1950 and 1975. Generation does not have significant asbestos related bodily injury claims occurring after 1980. As part of the 2001 restructuring in which Generation purchased ComEds and PECOs energy producing facilities, Generation assumed all of ComEds and PECOs current and future benefits and 68 Table of Contents liabilities associated with these facilities. Based on the receipt of asbestos related bodily injury claims during 2002, 2003 and 2004, where previously an insignificant number of claims were received and corresponding expenses were recorded, Generation engaged independent actuaries to determine if a reasonable estimate of future losses could be made based on historical claims data and other available information. Based on the currently available volume and diversity of historical claim and payment data, the actuaries determined that a reasonable estimate could be prepared and, accordingly, Generation engaged the actuaries to calculate an estimate of future losses. In the second quarter of 2005, based on the actuaries analyses, managements review of current and expected losses and the view of counsel regarding the assumptions used in estimating the future losses, Generation recorded an undiscounted $43 million pre tax charge for its estimated portion of all estimated future asbestos related personal injury claims estimated to be presented through 2030. This amount does not include estimated legal costs associated with handling these matters, which could be material. Exelon management determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims past 2030 based on only three years of historical claims data and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating future losses, management and the actuaries made various assumptions, including, but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that relate to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelons recent history of successfully defending itself in court cases for asbestos related bodily injury claims was qualitatively considered in determining this estimate. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon known facts at the time the report was prepared. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year and the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. While it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the asbestos related claims and settlements, management believes, after consultation with counsel, that resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations and financial position. Management cautions, however, that estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. The $43 million pre tax charge was recorded as part of operating and maintenance expense on Generations Consolidated Statement of Income in 2005 and reduced net income by $27 million. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, Exelon had approximately $50 million and $10 million, respectively, reserved in total for asbestos related bodily injury claims. As of December 31, 2005, approximately $9 million of this amount relates to 120 open claims presented to Generation, while the remaining $41 million of the reserve is for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030. Exelon plans to obtain annual updates of the estimate of future losses. On a quarterly basis, Exelon monitors actual experience against the number of forecasted claims to be received and expected claim payments. Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund Claim. In December 2004, the two Salem nuclear generation units were taken offline due to an oil spill from a tanker in the Delaware River near the facilities. The units, which draw water from the river for cooling purposes, were taken offline for approximately two weeks to avoid intake of the spilled oil, resulting in lost sales from the plant. Generation and PSEG have filed a joint claim for losses and damages with the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. As this matter represents a contingent gain, Generation has recorded no income resulting from this claim. However, Generations management believes it is reasonably possible that damages and losses will be recovered and that 69 Table of Contents Generations portion of the estimated proceeds arising from the claim will be approximately $25 million. Exelon expects this matter to be resolved in 2006. General Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are involved in various other litigation matters that are being defended and handled in the ordinary course of business. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation maintain accruals for such costs that are probable of being incurred and subject to reasonable estimation. The ultimate outcomes of such matters, as well as the matters discussed above, are uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on their respective financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation None. 70 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2006, there were 667,233,091 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 160,754 shareholders of common stock of record. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2005 2004 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 56.00 $ 57.46 $ 52.01 $ 47.18 $ 44.90 $ 37.90 $ 34.89 $ 34.43 Low price 46.62 49.60 44.14 41.77 36.73 32.69 30.92 32.18 Close 53.14 53.44 51.33 45.89 44.07 36.69 33.29 34.43 Dividends 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.305 0.275 0.275 On July 22, 2005, Exelons shareholders approved the issuance of Exelon common stock as contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 20, 2004, between Exelon and PSEG. Effective October 24, 2005, Exelons Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation were amended to increase the number of authorized shares of Exelon common stock from 1.2 billion to 2 billion. The attached table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Exelon of its common stock. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 1 October 31, 2005 1,178 $ 53.44 (b ) November 1 November 30, 2005 1,943,670 51.82 1,928,900 (b ) December 1 December 31, 2005 3,250 53.50 (b ) Total 1,948,098 51.83 (b ) (a) Shares other than those purchased as a part of a publicly announced plan primarily represent restricted shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares and shares repurchased from an executive upon retirement from Exelon. (b) In April 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program that allows Exelon to repurchase shares of its common stock on a periodic basis in the open market. The share repurchase program is intended to mitigate, in part, the dilutive effect of shares issued under Exelons employee stock option plan and Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The aggregate shares of common stock repurchased pursuant to the program cannot exceed the economic benefit received after January 1, 2004 due to stock option exercises and share purchases pursuant to Exelons ESPP. The economic benefit consists of direct cash proceeds from purchases of stock and tax benefits associated with exercises of stock options. The share repurchase program has no specified limit and no specified termination date. 71 Table of Contents ComEd As of January 31, 2006, there were outstanding 127,016,519 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At January 31, 2006, in addition to Exelon, there were 273 holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. PECO As of January 31, 2006, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Generation As of January 31, 2006, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Dividends Under applicable Federal law, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at ComEd, PECO or Generation may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2005, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.2 billion, which includes ComEds retained deficit of $(81) million consisting of $1,099 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends offset by unappropriated deficit of $(1,180) million, PECOs retained earnings of $649 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $1,002 million. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2005, such capital was $2.8 billion and amounted to about 32 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PEC L.P. or PECO Trust IV; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued (see ITEM 1. Business Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities). The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2005 and 2004: 2005 2004 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.305 $ 0.275 $ 0.275 72 Table of Contents The following table sets forth ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments and Generations quarterly distributions: 2005 2004 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter ComEd $ 146 $ 107 $ 107 $ 138 $ 137 $ 113 $ 104 $ 103 PECO 122 116 116 115 115 96 90 90 Generation 108 430 80 239 335 61 55 54 In July 2004, the Exelon Board of Directors approved a policy of targeting a dividend payout ratio of 50% to 60% of ongoing earnings. On January 24, 2006, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2006, to shareholders of record of Exelon at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on February 15, 2006. The Board of Directors of Exelon also declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share on Exelons common stock for the second quarter of 2006. The dividend is payable on June 10, 2006, to shareholders of record of Exelon at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on May 15, 2006. The Board of Directors of Exelon has also declared an additional dividend payable within 30 days after closing of the Merger if the Merger closes after February 15, 2006 and on or before May 15, 2006. The dividend will be pro rated, with shareholders receiving $0.00449 per share per day from February 15, 2006 to the closing of the Merger. This pro rata dividend is equivalent to $0.40 per share for the full quarter. If the Merger is not closed on or before May 15, 2006, the Board of Directors of Exelon expects to declare and pay a similar pro rata dividend for the period after May 15, 2006. The Board of Directors of Exelon also changed its policy for dividend record and payment dates that will take effect after the closing of the Merger. Currently, dividend record dates are the fifteenth day of the second month of the quarter, and payment dates are the tenth day of the third month of the quarter. After the closing of the Merger, when the dividend is increased as required by the Merger Agreement, the record date will be the eighth day of the third month of a quarter, and the payment date will be the last business day of the third month of a quarter. The Board expects that there will be another pro rated dividend for the period from the Merger closing date to the first regular record date under the new dividend schedule. This post closing pro rated dividend will be calculated at the increased dividend rate and will be paid on the first regular payment date under the new dividend schedule. The use of pro rated dividends is intended to keep shareholders whole with respect to their dividends. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. 73 Table of Contents For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 15,148 $ 14,060 $ 13,978 Operating income 2,724 3,499 2,409 3,280 3,406 Income from continuing operations $ 951 $ 1,870 $ 892 $ 1,690 $ 1,448 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 14 (29 ) (99 ) (20 ) (32 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 965 1,841 793 1,670 1,416 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (42 ) 23 112 (230 ) 12 Net income (a), (b) $ 923 $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 1,440 $ 1,428 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 1.40 $ 2.79 $ 1.36 $ 2.60 $ 2.24 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 (0.04 ) (0.15 ) (0.03 ) (0.05 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1.42 2.75 1.21 2.57 2.19 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (0.06 ) 0.03 0.17 (0.35 ) 0.02 Net income $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ 1.38 $ 2.22 $ 2.21 Dividends per common share $ 1.60 $ 1.26 $ 0.96 $ 0.88 $ 0.91 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 676 669 657 649 645 (a) Change between 2005 and 2004 is primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.2 billion in 2005. (b) Change between 2004 and 2003 is primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. December 31, in millions 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 4,637 $ 3,880 $ 4,524 $ 4,096 $ 3,707 Property, plant and equipment, net 21,981 21,482 20,630 17,957 14,665 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,386 4,790 5,226 5,546 5,774 Goodwill (a) 3,475 4,705 4,719 4,992 5,335 Other deferred debits and other assets 7,910 7,867 6,800 5,249 5,460 Total assets $ 42,389 $ 42,724 $ 41,899 $ 37,840 $ 34,941 Current liabilities $ 6,563 $ 4,836 $ 5,683 $ 5,845 $ 4,342 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 11,760 12,148 13,489 13,127 12,879 Regulatory liabilities 2,170 2,204 1,891 486 225 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 12,683 13,918 12,246 9,968 8,749 Minority interest 1 42 77 31 Preferred securities of subsidiaries (a) 87 87 87 595 613 Shareholders equity 9,125 9,489 8,503 7,742 8,102 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 42,389 $ 42,724 $ 41,899 $ 37,840 $ 34,941 (a) Change between 2005 and 2004 is primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.2 billion in 2005. (b) Due to the adoptions of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of ComEd and PECO were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003. 74 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ 6,124 $ 6,206 Operating income (loss) (12 ) 1,617 1,567 1,766 1,594 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ (676 ) $ 676 $ 702 $ 790 $ 607 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (9 ) 5 Net income (loss) (a) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ 707 $ 790 $ 607 December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,024 $ 1,196 $ 1,313 $ 1,049 $ 1,025 Property, plant and equipment, net 9,906 9,463 9,096 8,689 8,243 Goodwill, net (a) 3,475 4,705 4,719 4,916 4,902 Other deferred debits and other assets 2,806 2,077 2,837 1,662 1,682 Total assets $ 17,211 $ 17,441 $ 17,965 $ 16,316 $ 15,852 Current liabilities $ 2,308 $ 1,764 $ 1,557 $ 2,023 $ 1,797 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (b) 3,541 4,282 5,887 5,268 5,850 Regulatory liabilities 2,170 2,204 1,891 486 225 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,796 2,451 2,288 2,451 2,568 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (b) 330 329 Shareholders equity 6,396 6,740 6,342 5,758 5,083 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 17,211 $ 17,441 $ 17,965 $ 16,316 $ 15,852 (a) Change between 2005 and 2004 is primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.2 billion in 2005. (b) Due to the adoption of FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts as of December 31, 2003. 75 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 4,388 $ 4,333 $ 3,965 Operating income 1,049 1,014 1,056 1,093 999 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 520 $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 $ 425 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (3 ) Net income $ 517 $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 $ 425 Net income on common stock $ 513 $ 452 $ 468 $ 478 $ 415 December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 795 $ 727 $ 659 $ 898 $ 785 Property, plant and equipment, net 4,471 4,329 4,256 4,159 4,039 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,386 4,790 5,226 5,546 5,774 Other deferred debits and other assets 366 241 232 88 112 Total assets $ 10,018 $ 10,087 $ 10,373 $ 10,691 $ 10,710 Current liabilities $ 936 $ 748 $ 676 $ 1,509 $ 1,307 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (a) 4,143 4,628 5,239 4,951 5,438 Deferred credits and other liabilities 3,235 3,313 3,442 3,342 3,358 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (a) 128 128 Mandatorily redeemable preferred stock 19 Shareholders equity 1,704 1,398 1,016 761 460 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 10,018 $ 10,087 $ 10,373 $ 10,691 $ 10,710 (a) Due to the adoptions of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003. 76 Table of Contents Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. The results of operations for Exelon Energy Company are not included in periods prior to 2004. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Statement of Income data: Operating revenues $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 8,135 $ 6,858 $ 6,826 Operating income (loss) 1,852 1,039 (115 ) 509 872 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 1,109 $ 657 $ (241 ) $ 387 $ 512 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (16 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,128 641 (241 ) 387 512 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (30 ) 32 108 13 12 Net income (loss) (a) $ 1,098 $ 673 $ (133 ) $ 400 $ 524 (a) Change between 2004 and 2003 is primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. December 31, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,040 $ 2,321 $ 2,438 $ 1,805 $ 1,435 Property, plant and equipment, net 7,464 7,536 7,106 4,698 2,003 Deferred debits and other assets 7,220 6,581 5,105 4,402 4,700 Total assets $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 $ 8,138 Current liabilities $ 3,400 $ 2,416 $ 3,553 $ 2,594 $ 1,097 Long term debt 1,788 2,583 1,649 2,132 1,021 Deferred credits and other liabilities 8,554 8,356 6,488 3,226 3,212 Minority interest 2 44 3 54 Members equity 3,980 3,039 2,956 2,899 2,808 Total liabilities and members equity $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 $ 8,138 77 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon General Exelon is a public utility holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following business segments: ComEd, whose business includes the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose businesses include the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Generation, which consists principally of the electric generating facilities and wholesale energy marketing operations of Generation, the competitive retail sales business of Exelon Energy Company and certain other generation projects. See Note 22 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Through 2004, Exelon identified three operating segments Energy Delivery (ComEd and PECO), Generation and Enterprises. Exelon sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises in 2004 and 2003. As such, Exelon ceased reporting Enterprises as a segment as of January 1, 2005. Additionally, as of the fourth quarter of 2005, Exelon reconsidered its previous presentation of segments and concluded that it would have been more appropriate to treat ComEd and PECO as separate operating segments for prior periods as opposed to the single Energy Delivery operating segment. If ComEd and PECO would have previously been identified as separate operating segments, Exelon concluded that ComEd and PECO, nonetheless, would have been aggregated due to their similar economic characteristics, as a single reportable segment for segment reporting purposes. This aggregation would have resulted in substantially the same presentation in previously filed reports. As a result of developments during the fourth quarter of 2005, Exelon has concluded that it can no longer aggregate ComEd and PECO as a single reportable segment. These developments include the approaching end of the regulatory transition period and rate freeze in Illinois, the opposition to rate increases expressed by the Attorney General of the State of Illinois, changes in the ComEd Board of Directors and the selection of executive officers of ComEd with no responsibilities outside of ComEd. For more information regarding ComEds regulatory issues, see ComEd Retail Electric Services below and Note 4 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, ComEd and PECO are no longer reported as a combined Energy Delivery reportable segment. As such, Exelon now presents three reportable segments: ComEd, PECO and Generation. Prior period presentation has been adjusted for comparative purposes. Exelons corporate operations, through its business services subsidiary, BSC, provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology, supply management and corporate governance services. ComEd and PECO also receive additional services from BSC, including planning and engineering of delivery systems, management of construction, operation and maintenance of the transmission and delivery systems, and management of other support services. Generation receives additional services from BSC for inventory and information technology support and management of other support services. These costs are allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. 78 Table of Contents Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $923 million in 2005 as compared to $1,864 million in 2004 and diluted earnings per average common share were $1.36 for 2005 as compared to $2.78 for 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the following: a $1.2 billion impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill; losses for the cumulative effect of adopting FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (FIN 47); an increase to the reserve for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims; increased depreciation and amortization expense, including CTC amortization at PECO; the gain associated with the sale of Boston Generating recorded in 2004; a gain recorded in 2004 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle due to the adoption of FIN 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46 R); and a gain recorded in 2004 from the reimbursement of costs incurred prior to 2004 under a settlement with DOE related to spent nuclear fuel storage. The factors driving the overall decrease in net income above were partially offset by the following: higher margins on Generations wholesale market sales; favorable weather conditions in Exelons service territories; reduced severance and severance related charges; lower pension expense as a result of a discretionary pension contribution made in the first quarter of 2005; and losses associated with 2004 debt retirements at ComEd. Investment Strategy. In 2005, Exelon continued to follow a disciplined approach in investing to maximize earnings and cash flows from its assets and businesses, while selling those investments that do not meet its strategic goals. Highlights from 2005 include the following: Proposed Merger with PSEG On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into a Merger Agreement with PSEG, and shareholders of both companies approved the transaction in July 2005. The Merger also received approval from regulatory agencies in New York, Texas and Connecticut, in addition to the FERC approval in June 2005. On September 13, 2005, Exelon announced that PECO had reached a partial settlement, subject to approval, with some but not all of the parties related to the Pennsylvania review of the Merger. The PAPUC approved the settlement and the Merger on January 27, 2006. In New Jersey, hearings for the Merger review have been extended; they are expected to conclude on March 27, 2006. Settlement discussions began in December 2005 and are expected to resume after the hearings conclude. Scheduled dates for the Administrative Law Judges (ALJ) initial decision and final order from the NJBPU also may be extended, but no firm dates have been set. 79 Table of Contents Other remaining regulatory reviews include the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). Exelon will attempt to reach a settlement that satisfactorily resolves issues and allows the Merger to close in the second quarter of 2006. However, in the absence of an earlier settlement, Exelon expects that the closing of the Merger will occur in the third quarter of 2006. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Sithe On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Specifically, subsidiaries of Generation closed on the acquisition of Reservoir Capital Groups 50% interest in Sithe and the sale of 100% of Sithe to Dynegy. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale of Generations investment in Sithe. Financing Activities. During 2005, Exelon met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources, including capital markets, and through bank borrowings. On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement to fund pension contributions in the first quarter of 2005. On April 1, 2005, Exelon entered into a $500 million term loan agreement that was subsequently fully borrowed to reduce the $2 billion term loan referenced above. On June 9, 2005, Exelon issued and sold $1.7 billion of senior debt securities pursuant to its senior debt indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, consisting of $400 million of 4.45% senior notes due 2010, $800 million of 4.90% senior notes due 2015 and $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2035. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay the $1.5 billion in remaining principal due on the $2 billion term loan agreement and $200 million of the $500 million term loan agreement. See Notes 10 and 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Regulatory Developments Illinois. As discussed in ITEM 1. Business and Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power by ComEd for the time period after 2006. To mitigate the impact on its residential customers of transitioning to this process, ComEd has offered to develop a cap and deferral proposal to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers, some or all of which could require regulatory or legislative approval to implement. Several parties have indicated that they will petition the ICC for rehearing and will challenge the ICC decision in court. ComEd has also petitioned for rehearing of the ICC decision on certain issues, but that petition was denied by the ICC on February 8, 2006. It is also possible that interested parties could introduce legislation in Illinois in attempt to modify the procurement process or the rates that ComEd may charge consumers for the power ComEd purchases to meet the needs of consumers. The Illinois General Assembly has held hearings concerning generation procurement after 2006, and it may take action on this issue. ComEd also has filed and has pending a regulatory proceeding before the ICC, referred to as the Rate Case. The Rate Case seeks, among other things, to allocate the costs of delivering electricity and to adjust ComEds rates for delivering electricity effective January 2, 2007. The Rate Case also proposes procedures under which ComEd will allocate the costs from the Procurement Case among ComEd customers. Several intervenors in the Rate Case, including the ICC staff and the Illinois Attorney General, have suggested, and provided testimony, that ComEds rates should actually be reduced. The results of the Rate Case are not expected to be known until the third quarter of 2006. Market Based Rates Filing. On July 5, 2005, the FERC approved Generations continued authority to charge market based rates for wholesale sales of electricity, including to its affiliates ComEd and PECO. In the same order, the FERC stated that Generation had failed to address the affiliate abuse issue of the FERCs market based rate eligibility test. On August 4, 2005, Generation filed a Petition for Rehearing asking the FERC to rescind that part of its market based rate order. Generation expects the FERC to make a decision in 2006. If the FERC were to suspend Generations market based rate 80 Table of Contents authority, Generation would be required to supply and implement a plan for mitigation of market power. FERCs default mitigation would require Generation to file and obtain FERC acceptance of cost based rate schedules or schedules tied to a public index. In addition, the loss of market based rate authority would subject Generation to the accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on public utilities with cost based rate schedules. Repeal of PUHCA. Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act, PUHCA was repealed effective February 8, 2006. Under the Energy Policy Act, FERC obtained additional jurisdiction for merger review and for the review of affiliate transactions, and FERCs financing jurisdiction resumed to the extent that it was preempted by PUHCA. Exelon continues to review the effects of the Energy Policy Act and FERCs proposed rules with respect to future financing authority for its subsidiaries. To the extent that the SECs jurisdiction under PUHCA preempted certain aspects of state regulation, the repeal of PUHCA permits the states in which Exelon and its subsidiaries operate to adopt additional regulations if they so choose, absent any preemption by the FERC. See ITEM 1. Business and Note 4 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on other regulatory matters. Outlook for 2006 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: Exelon expects the Merger will result in synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Although Exelon expects to achieve these anticipated benefits of the Merger, achieving them, including synergies, is subject to a number of uncertainties. See ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Certain governmental officials and consumer advocacy groups claim that ComEds retail rates for electricity should not be based solely on its cost to procure electricity and capacity in the wholesale market. Additionally, certain parties to ComEds Rate Case proceeding have indicated ComEds rates for delivering energy should be reduced and not increased. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell electricity beginning in 2007 is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, or if ComEd is unable to recover its costs and investment through the Rate Case, there may be material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. However, the ICCs unanimous approval of the reverse auction process, barring any successful appeals or change in law, should provide ComEd with stability and greater certainty that it will be able to procure energy and pass through the costs of that energy to ComEds customers beginning in 2007 through a transparent market mechanism in the reverse auction process. The results of the Rate Case should be known during the third quarter of 2006. As of December 31, 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have not significantly impacted the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. However, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita are expected to impact the already increasing costs of certain supplies and the lead time to order these supplies in 2006. As a result, costs of such supplies could be $30 million to $40 million higher in 2006 compared to 2005, impacting the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries, has investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45k (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45k contains a provision under which credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. The estimated annual average price per barrel of oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. index (NYMEX) would have to exceed $59 and $61 in 2006 and 2007, respectively, for a 81 Table of Contents phase out to begin. In 2005, the estimated annual average price per barrel of $57 did not exceed the bottom of the phase out range of $58. As a result, Exelons interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities increased Exelons net income by $81 million during 2005. Based on the 2006 and 2007 NYMEX futures prices at December 31, 2005, Exelon estimates there will be a phase out of tax credits of 38% and 36% in 2006 and 2007, respectively. This would decrease Exelons net income as compared to 2005 by as much as $38 million and $36 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. These estimates can change significantly due to the volatility in oil prices. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Registrants Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Nuclear Decommissioning (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate the fair value of its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that fair value, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at a minimum of every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the estimated base year decommissioning costs, which are included in the decommissioning cost studies discussed above, through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost levels and various decommissioning timing scenarios. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 15% or minus 10% over the base cost scenario. The probabilities assigned to various timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals and the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposal. 82 Table of Contents Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation recorded with a corresponding change to the asset retirement cost (ARC) asset. However, if the ARO relates to retired units, which have no remaining useful life and, likewise, no existing ARC, the offset may be recorded in current period earnings. Changes in the assumptions could affect future updates to the decommissioning obligation. For example, the 20 year average cost escalation rates used in the latest ARO calculation were approximately 3% to 4%. A uniform increase in these escalation rates of 25 basis points would increase the total ARO recorded by Exelon by approximately 9% or more than $350 million. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on an ongoing basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Conditional ARO (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation adopted FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (FIN 47). FIN 47 clarified that a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a long lived asset whose timing and or method of settlement are conditional on a future event is within the scope of SFAS No. 143. Under FIN 47, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are required to record a conditional ARO at its estimated fair value if that fair value can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had liabilities of $236 million, $151 million, $20 million and $65 million, respectively, associated with their conditional AROs. The adoption of FIN 47 required the Registrants to update an existing inventory, originally created for the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and to determine which, if any, of the conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated. The ability to reasonably estimate a conditional ARO was a matter of management judgment, based upon managements ability to estimate a settlement date or range of settlement dates, a method or potential method of settlement and probabilities associated with the potential dates and methods of settlement of its conditional AROs. In determining whether their conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated, management considered the Registrants past practices, industry practices, managements intent and the estimated economic lives of the assets. The fair value of the conditional AROs was then estimated using an expected present value technique. Additionally, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assessed the likelihood of recovering these obligations from customers which led to the recognition of regulatory assets. Changes in managements assumptions regarding settlement dates, settlement methods, assigned probabilities or recovery mechanisms could have a material effect on the liabilities recorded by each Registrant at December 31, 2005 as well as the associated cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle recorded at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and the associated regulatory assets recorded at Exelon, ComEd and PECO. The liabilities associated with conditional AROs will be adjusted on an ongoing basis due to the passage of time, new laws and regulations and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimates of undiscounted cash flows. These adjustments could have a significant impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income of the Registrants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of FIN 47, see Notes 1 and 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 83 Table of Contents Asset Impairments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) As of December 31, 2004, Exelon and ComEd had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill, which related entirely to the goodwill recorded upon the acquisition of ComEd. Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires managements judgments, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. Exelon and ComEd performed their annual assessments of goodwill impairment as of November 1, 2005 and determined that goodwill was impaired by $1.2 billion. Exelon assesses goodwill impairment at its ComEd reporting unit; accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge at ComEd is fully reflected in Exelons results of operations. After reflecting the impairment, Exelon and ComEd have $3.5 billion of goodwill as of December 31, 2005. In the assessments, Exelon and ComEd estimated the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds purchase power agreement with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. Changes in assumptions regarding these variables or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of approximately 10% in ComEds expected discounted cash flows would result in additional impairment for both ComEd and Exelon of $1.2 billion. An additional impairment would require Exelon and ComEd to further reduce both goodwill and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power and costs of fuel. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Investments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had approximately $6,398 million, $75 million, $95 million and $5,705 million, respectively, of investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2005. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation consider investments to be impaired when a decline in fair value below cost is judged to be other than temporary. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, they evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, as 84 Table of Contents well as their intent and ability to hold the investment. The Registrants may also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee when reviewing an investment for impairment. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the investment and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, depreciation estimates are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of property, plant and equipment recorded and the depreciation charged to the financial statements. Historically, Generation has extended the estimated service lives of certain nuclear fuel generating facilities based upon Generations intent to apply for license renewals for these facilities. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC. The impact of the new rates, based on the study, which will be effective March 2006, is not expected to be material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to essentially all ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC employees and certain Enterprises employees. See Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for Exelons defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon utilizes assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increases and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.00% in 2005, 2004 and 2003. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 8.30% in 2005 compared to a range of 8.33% to 8.35% in 2004 and 8.40% for 2003. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The discount rate for determining the plan obligations was 5.60%, 5.75% and 6.25% at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The discount rates at December 31, 2004 and 2003 were selected by reference to the Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index adjusted to reflect the duration of expected future cash flows for pension and other postretirement welfare benefit payments. At 85 Table of Contents December 31, 2005, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of more than 400 Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement welfare benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement welfare benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation atDecember 31, 2005 Impact onPension Liability atDecember 31, 2005 Impact on 2006 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $683 $548 $50 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 45 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligationat December 31, 2005 Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability atDecember 31, 2005 Impact on 2006PostretirementBenefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 208 $ $ 24 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 6 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons postretirement benefit plans. To estimate the 2005 cost, Exelon assumed a health care cost trend rate of 9%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 5% in 2010, compared to the 2004 assumption of 10%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 4.5% in 2011. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates in 2005 would have had the following effects (dollars in millions): Effect of a one percentage point increase in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ 41 on postretirement benefit obligation $ 399 Effect of a one percentage point decrease in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ (30 ) on postretirement benefit obligation $ (297 ) The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during Exelons annual review process and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. In 2005, Exelon incurred approximately $221 million in costs associated with its pension and postretirement benefit plans. The decrease in Exelons pension and postretirement benefit costs in 2005 compared to 2004 and 2003 was primarily attributable to discretionary pension contributions of $2 billion made during the first quarter of 2005. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71), which 86 Table of Contents requires Exelon, ComEd and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements as a one time extraordinary item and through impacts on continuing operations. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding regulatory issues. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. As of December 31, 2005, Exelon and PECO had recorded $4.4 billion of net regulatory assets within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2005, Exelon and ComEd had recorded $2.2 billion of net regulatory liabilities within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 21 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction where they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. The electric businesses of both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Because the current rates include the recovery and settlement of existing regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow Exelon, ComEd and PECO to earn a reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the Federal level and in the states where ComEd and PECO do business but is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off and recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants enter into derivatives to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation utilizes derivatives with respect to energy transactions to manage the utilization of its available generating capability and provisions of wholesale energy to its affiliates. Generation also utilizes energy option contracts and energy financial swap arrangements to limit the market price risk associated with forward energy commodity contracts. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for trading purposes. All of the Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). 87 Table of Contents The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133). Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Derivatives recorded at fair value on the balance sheet are presented as current or noncurrent mark to market derivative assets or liabilities. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction occurs. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon the assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery of the underlying item. This assessment is based primarily on internal models that forecast customer demand for electricity and gas supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. If it was determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchases or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings. Energy Contracts. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants use external dealer prices or internal valuation models that utilize assumptions of available market pricing curves. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the 88 Table of Contents Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties have a significant effect on the liabilities and expenses in their financial statements. Taxation The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. Other than as noted below, the Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2005 reflect the probable expected outcome of pending tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, and SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Environmental Costs As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $128 million, $54 million, $47 million and $27 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where timing and costs of expenditures can be reliably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts represent $89 million, $48 million, and $41 million of the total accrued for Exelon, ComEd, and PECO, respectively. Generation has no accrued environmental investigation and remediation costs recorded on a discounted basis. Where timing and amounts cannot be reliably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $39 million, $6 million, $6 million and $27 million, respectively, of the total accrued liabilities for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology, regulations or the requirements of local governmental authorities. Asbestos Personal Injury Claims As of December 31, 2005, Exelon and Generation have approximately $50 million reserved in total for asbestos related bodily injury claims. Approximately $9 million of this amount relates to 120 open claims presented to Generation as of December 31, 2005, while the remaining $41 million of the reserve is for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030 based on actuarial assumptions and analysis. Exelons and Generations management each determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims beyond 2030 based on the historical claims data available and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating the future losses, management and the actuaries made various assumptions, including but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that related to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelon plans to obtain annual updates of the estimate of future losses. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon historical experience and third party actuarial studies. Projecting 89 Table of Contents future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. Management cautions, however, that these estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Severance Accounting (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with the Registrants and compensation level. The Registrants accrue severance benefits that are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in estimating severance charges is the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. The Registrants base their estimates on their current plans and ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate their businesses. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation recorded severance charges (benefits) of $(14) million, $(9) million, $1 million and $(4) million, respectively, in 2005, and severance charges of $32 million, $10 million, $3 million and $2 million, respectively, in 2004, related to personnel reductions. The Registrants may incur further severance costs if they identify additional positions to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of ComEds, PECOs and Exelon Energys energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable of ComEd, PECO and Generation included estimates of $287 million, $175 million and $89 million, respectively, for unbilled revenue as of December 31, 2005 as a result of unread meters at ComEd, PECO and Exelon Energy. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding Exelon Energys, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Customer accounts receivable of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2005 include unbilled energy revenues of $435 million related to unbilled energy sales of Generation. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Generations revenue from service agreements, such as the nuclear Operating Service Agreement with PSEG Nuclear, is dependent upon when the services are rendered. Service agreements representing a cost recovery arrangement are presented gross within revenues for the amounts due from the party receiving the service, and the costs associated with providing the service are presented within operating and maintenance expenses. 90 Table of Contents Results of Operations (Dollars in millions except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 1,224 Purchased power and fuel expense 5,646 4,929 (717 ) Operating and maintenance expense 3,718 3,700 (18 ) Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,334 1,295 (39 ) Operating income 2,724 3,499 (775 ) Other income and deductions (829 ) (922 ) 93 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,895 2,577 (682 ) Income taxes 944 713 (231 ) Income from continuing operations 951 1,870 (919 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 14 (29 ) 43 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 965 1,841 (876 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 23 (65 ) Net income 923 1,864 (941 ) Diluted earnings per share $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ (1.42 ) Net Income. Net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1,207 million associated with ComEds goodwill and losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47, partially offset by higher realized prices on market sales at Generation and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoption of FIN 46 R. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to increased revenues at ComEd and PECO and increased revenues from non affiliates at Generation. The increase in revenues at ComEd and PECO was primarily due to favorable weather conditions, an increase in the number of customers choosing ComEd or PECO as their electric supplier and higher transmission revenues, partially offset by decreased CTC collections at ComEd. The increase in revenues from non affiliates at Generation was primarily due to higher prices on energy sold in the market, partially offset by an increase in the percentage of energy produced and sold to ComEd and PECO and the sale of Boston Generating in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased primarily due to overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices, partially offset by the decrease in fuel expense due to the sale of Boston Generating in 2004, favorable mark to market adjustments related to non trading activities and the expiration of the purchase power agreement with Midwest Generation in 2004. Purchased power represented 22% of Generations total supply in 2005 compared to 24% in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. 91 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a gain recorded in 2004 related to the DOE Settlement, an increase to the reserve for the estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims that was recorded in 2005, higher costs associated with planned nuclear refueling outages, and increased costs related to an operating agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc. (formerly Sithe International, Inc.), partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and decreased severance and benefit expense. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd recorded a $1,207 million charge during 2005 to impair its goodwill. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service, additional amortization of the CTC at PECO and accelerated amortization of PECOs current customer information and billing system, partially offset by the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units in 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, operating and maintenance expense, impairment of goodwill and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was the result of increased taxes other than income, partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and reduced property tax expense. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects a 2004 charge at ComEd associated with the accelerated retirement of debt and the related reduction in interest expense from these debt retirements and increased realized gains related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, partially offset by increased interest expense on short term debt at Exelon, increased losses from Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities and an $85 million gain recorded in 2004 on the sale of Boston Generating. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 50% for 2005 compared to 28% for 2004. Exclusive of the goodwill impairment charge, the effective income tax rate for 2005 was 30%. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises and AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Income. See Notes 2 and 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe, certain Enterprises businesses and AllEnergy as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe. The results of Sithe and AllEnergy are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations increased by $43 million from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2005 and 2004 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ (676 ) $ 676 $ (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Generation 1,109 657 452 Other (a) (2 ) 82 (84 ) Total $ 951 $ 1,870 $ (919 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ (676 ) $ 676 $ (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Generation 1,128 641 487 Corporate (a) (7 ) 69 (76 ) Total $ 965 $ 1,841 $ (876 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ (685 ) $ 676 $ (1,361 ) PECO 517 455 62 Generation 1,098 673 425 Corporate (7 ) 60 (67 ) Total $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 93 Table of Contents Results of OperationsComEd 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 Operating expenses Purchased power 3,520 2,588 (932 ) Operating and maintenance 833 897 64 Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 413 410 (3 ) Taxes other than income 303 291 (12 ) Total operating expense 6,276 4,186 (2,090 ) Operating income (loss) (12 ) 1,617 (1,629 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (295 ) (369 ) 74 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) (19 ) 5 Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) 130 Other, net 8 34 (26 ) Total other income and deductions (301 ) (484 ) 183 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (313 ) 1,133 (1,446 ) Income taxes 363 457 94 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) (9 ) Net income (loss) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ (1,361 ) Net Loss. ComEds net loss in 2005 was driven by the impairment of goodwill and higher purchased power expense, partially offset by higher operating revenues due to favorable weather and due to the impacts of a 2004 charge associated with the accelerated retirement of long term debt and lower interest expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Weather $ 415 Customer choice 81 Rate changes and mix (66 ) Volume (3 ) Other (9 ) Retail revenue 418 PJM transmission 58 T&O / SECA rates (28 ) Other 13 Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 43 Increase in operating revenues $ 461 94 Table of Contents Weather. Revenues were higher by $415 million due to favorable weather conditions in 2005 compared to 2004. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather in non summer months reduces demand. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 90% and 1% higher, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. For 2005 and 2004, 33% and 35% of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by alternative electric suppliers or under the Power Purchase Option (PPO). All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2005, one alternative supplier was approved to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, no residential customers have selected this alternative supplier. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 19,310 20,939 Percentage of total retail deliveries 21 % 24 % Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 21,276 22,161 Percentage of total retail customers (b ) (b ) Volume (GWhs) (a) 30,905 30,426 Percentage of total retail deliveries 33 % 35 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Rate changes and mix. The change is primarily due to the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component of the CTC calculation which resulted in a decrease of $64 million to $105 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. As a result of increasing mitigation factors and changes in energy prices, ComEd anticipates that CTC revenues will range from $35 million to $50 million in 2006. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues increased by $58 million in 2005 due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O / SECA rates. Revenues decreased $28 million as a result of the elimination of T&O rates in accordance with FERC orders that became effective December 1, 2004. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd, and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power Expense below. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. 95 Table of Contents Purchased Power Expense. The changes in purchased power expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Prices $ 606 Weather 200 Customer choice 65 PJM 63 Volume 7 T&O collections / SECA rates (15 ) Other 6 Increase in purchased power expense $ 932 Prices. Purchased power increased due to higher prices associated with ComEds PPA with Generation of $497 million, and ancillary services of $109 million from PJM. In 2000, ComEd and Generation entered into a PPA that fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2004 based upon the then current market prices. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement as of April 30, 2004 with Generation, starting in January 1, 2005, ComEd began paying higher prices for its purchased power from Generation and ceased to procure its ancillary services from Generation. This agreement fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2006 based upon the current market prices as of April 30, 2004. Weather. The $200 million increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory, which increased the amount of electricity sold. Customer choice. The $65 million increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to fewer ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. PJM. The $63 million increase reflects higher transmission and purchased power expense of $57 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM and PJM administrative fees that increased by $6 million over 2004 fees. T&O Collections / SECA rates. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O rates for transmission service scheduled out of or across ComEds transmission system. Rates collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received by ComEd as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. ComEds purchased power expense increased $14 million due to ComEd no longer collecting T&O revenues in 2005. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005, ComEd recorded SECA collections net of SECA charges of $29 million. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O /SECA rates. 96 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses (a) $ (47 ) Employee fringe benefits (b) (18 ) Pension expense and deferred compensation (c) (15 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts (13 ) Injuries and damages (2 ) Corporate allocations (b) 15 Storm costs 14 Contractors 12 PSEG merger integration costs 8 Other (18 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (64 ) (a) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other postretirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 as compared to 2004. (b) Excludes severance related expenses and pension expense. Reflects fewer employees compared to prior year and a reduction in 2005 related to estimated medical plan fees. A portion of the employee reduction is offset by an increase in corporate allocations. (c) Pension expense in 2005 is lower than in 2004 due in large part to significant pension plan contributions made in the first quarter of 2005. See Note 13 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time (November 1). The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds purchase power agreement with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd has approximately $3.5 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2005. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense $ 17 Other amortization expense (14 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 3 The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. The decrease in other amortization expense was primarily due to completing the amortization of one of ComEds software packages in 2004. 97 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 13 Tax refund (b) 6 Other (7 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 12 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) During 2004, a refund was received for Illinois electricity distribution taxes. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense of $74 million for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to long term debt retirements and prepayments in 2004 pursuant to Exelons accelerated liability management plan and scheduled payments on long term debt owed to the ComEd Funding Trust. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt. In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $768 million of long term debt, of which $618 million was retired during the third quarter of 2004. During 2004, ComEd recorded a charge of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of this charge included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Loss on settlement of cash flow swaps (a) $ (15 ) Interest income on long term receivable from UII, LLC (b) (16 ) Other 5 Decrease in other, net $ (26 ) (a) See Note 14 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) The decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC resulted from this receivable being repaid in late 2004. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was (116.0)% and 40.3% for 2005 and 2004, respectively. Exclusive of the goodwill impairment charge, the effective rate for 2005 was 40.6%. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 12 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 98 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 30,042 26,463 3,579 13.5 % Small commercial & industrial 21,378 21,662 (284 ) (1.3 %) Large commercial & industrial 7,904 6,913 991 14.3 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,133 1,893 240 12.7 % Total full service 61,457 56,931 4,526 7.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 5,591 4,110 1,481 36.0 % Large commercial & industrial 6,004 5,377 627 11.7 % 11,595 9,487 2,108 22.2 % Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,677 6,305 (628 ) (10.0 %) Large commercial & industrial 13,633 14,634 (1,001 ) (6.8 %) 19,310 20,939 (1,629 ) (7.8 %) Total PPO and delivery only 30,905 30,426 479 1.6 % Total retail deliveries 92,362 87,357 5,005 5.7 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 99 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,584 $ 2,295 $ 289 12.6 % Small commercial & industrial 1,671 1,649 22 1.3 % Large commercial & industrial 408 380 28 7.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 132 126 6 4.8 % Total full service 4,795 4,450 345 7.8 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 385 274 111 40.5 % Large commercial & industrial 345 304 41 13.5 % 730 578 152 26.3 % Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 95 128 (33 ) (25.8 %) Large commercial & industrial 156 204 (48 ) (23.5 %) 251 332 (81 ) (24.4 %) Total PPO and delivery only 981 910 71 7.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,776 5,360 416 7.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 488 443 45 10.2 % Total operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 7.9 % (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. 100 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 423 Operating expenses Purchased power 2,515 2,172 (343 ) Operating and maintenance 549 547 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 566 518 (48 ) Taxes other than income 231 236 5 Total operating expense 3,861 3,473 (388 ) Operating income 1,049 1,014 35 Other income and deductions Interest expense (280 ) (303 ) 23 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) (25 ) 9 Other, net 14 18 (4 ) Total other income and deductions (282 ) (310 ) 28 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 767 704 63 Income taxes 247 249 2 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 520 455 65 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) (3 ) Net income 517 455 62 Preferred stock dividends 4 3 (1 ) Net income on common stock $ 513 $ 452 $ 61 Net Income. PECOs net income in 2005 increased primarily as a result of higher revenues, net of related purchased power expense, due to favorable weather and lower interest expense due to the scheduled retirement of debt owed to PETT, partially offset by higher CTC amortization. Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Rate changes and mix $ 72 $ 90 $ 162 Customer choice 118 118 Volume 101 (21 ) 80 Weather 54 10 64 Retail revenue 345 79 424 T&O / SECA rates 3 3 PJM transmission (3 ) (3 ) Other 9 (10 ) (1 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 9 (10 ) (1 ) Increase in operating revenues $ 354 $ 69 $ 423 101 Table of Contents Rate changes and mix. The increase in electric revenues at PECO attributable to rate changes and mix resulted from increased residential sales, which are billed at higher average rates relative to other customer classes. In addition, rates were higher in 2005 for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were higher in 2005 relative to 2004. The increase in gas revenues was due to increases in rates through PAPUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2004, March 1, 2005, June 1, 2005, September 1, 2005 and December 1, 2005. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2005 was 12% higher than the average rate for 2004. Customer choice. For 2005 and 2004, 5% and 12%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by alternative electric suppliers. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. Operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Number of customers at period end 44,500 101,500 Percentage of total retail customers 3 % 7 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 2,094 4,605 Percentage of total retail deliveries 5 % 12 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice was primarily related to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. This action followed the assignment of approximately 194,000 residential customers to alternative electric suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PAPUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. In 2005, additional customers returned to PECO as their energy supplier primarily as a result of two alternative energy suppliers exiting the market. Volume. The increase in electric revenues was primarily as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were positively affected by favorable weather conditions at PECO in 2005 compared to 2004. In the PECO service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 21% and 2% higher, respectively, than the prior year. T&O / SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power and Fuel Expense below. The elimination of T&O revenues and inclusion of SECA revenues had a minimal 102 Table of Contents impact on PECO as T&O revenues recognized in the past were not material and SECA revenues currently being recognized also are not material. See Note 2 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. Other wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. Electric revenues increased $9 million primarily due to increased wholesale sales, and gas revenues decreased $10 million primarily due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Prices $ 83 $ 90 $ 173 Customer choice 118 118 Weather 21 7 28 Volume 32 (15 ) 17 PJM transmission 11 11 SECA rates 9 9 Other (13 ) (13 ) Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 274 $ 69 $ 343 Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Weather. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to serving the increased demand due to favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory. Volume. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was due primarily to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005 and 2004, PECO recorded SECA charges of $10 million and $1 million, respectively. See Note 2 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O /SECA rates. Other. The decrease in gas fuel expense of $13 million was associated with decreased off system sales. 103 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Contractors (a) $ 8 Storm costs 7 Implementation of new customer information and billing system 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Severance related expenses (b) (14 ) Injuries and damages (6 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) The increase was primarily due to increases in vegetation management services compared to the prior year at PECO. (b) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other post retirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 compared to 2004. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization $ 37 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system 13 Depreciation expense 3 Other amortization expense (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 48 PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the pending merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system requires the accelerated amortization of PECOs current system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $10 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. If additional system changes are approved, additional accelerated depreciation may be required. The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Reduction in capital stock tax accrual in 2005 (a) $ (17 ) Reduction in real estate tax accrual in 2005 (b) (6 ) Taxes on utility revenues (c) 24 Other (6 ) Decrease in taxes other than income $ (5 ) 104 Table of Contents (a) Represents a reduction in 2005 of prior year capital stock tax accruals as a result of a favorable decision from the Pennsylvania Board of Finance and Revenue. (b) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in March 2005 following settlements between PECO and various taxing authorities related to prior year tax assessments. See Note 15 of PECOs Notes to the Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense at PECO of $23 million for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to scheduled payments on long term debt owed to PETT. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts of PECO due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 32.2% for 2005 compared to 35.4% for 2004. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to a state income tax benefit recorded as a result of the favorable settlement of a 2000 Pennsylvania corporate net income tax audit. See Note 8 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 10 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 13,135 10,349 2,786 26.9 % Small commercial & industrial 7,263 6,728 535 8.0 % Large commercial & industrial 15,205 14,908 297 2.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 962 914 48 5.3 % Total full service 36,565 32,899 3,666 11.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 334 2,158 (1,824 ) (84.5 %) Small commercial & industrial 1,257 1,687 (430 ) (25.5 %) Large commercial & industrial 503 760 (257 ) (33.8 %) Total delivery only 2,094 4,605 (2,511 ) (54.5 %) Total retail deliveries 38,659 37,504 1,155 3.1 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 105 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,705 $ 1,317 $ 388 29.5 % Small commercial & industrial 818 756 62 8.2 % Large commercial & industrial 1,173 1,113 60 5.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 84 80 4 5.0 % Total full service 3,780 3,266 514 15.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 25 164 (139 ) (84.8 %) Small commercial & industrial 63 86 (23 ) (26.7 %) Large commercial & industrial 13 20 (7 ) (35.0 %) Total delivery only 101 270 (169 ) (62.6 %) Total electric retail revenues 3,881 3,536 345 9.8 % Miscellaneous revenue (c) 212 203 9 4.4 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,093 $ 3,739 $ 354 9.5 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,751 59,949 (198 ) (0.3 %) Transportation 25,310 27,148 (1,838 ) (6.8 %) Total 85,061 87,097 (2,036 ) (2.3 %) Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 783 $ 702 $ 81 11.5 % Transportation 16 18 (2 ) (11.1 %) Resales and other 18 28 (10 ) (35.7 %) Total gas revenue $ 817 $ 748 $ 69 9.2 % 106 Table of Contents Results of Operations Generation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 Operating expenses Purchased power 2,569 2,307 (262 ) Fuel 1,913 1,704 (209 ) Operating and maintenance 2,288 2,201 (87 ) Depreciation and amortization 254 286 32 Taxes other than income 170 166 (4 ) Total operating expenses 7,194 6,664 (530 ) Operating income 1,852 1,039 813 Other income and deductions Interest expense (128 ) (103 ) (25 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (1 ) (14 ) 13 Other, net 95 130 (35 ) Total other income and deductions (34 ) 13 (47 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,818 1,052 766 Income taxes 709 401 (308 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 1,109 651 458 Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 1,109 657 452 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (45 ) 45 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 24 24 Income taxes 5 (29 ) (34 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (16 ) 35 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,128 641 487 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 32 (62 ) Net income $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 Net Income. Generations net income in 2005 increased $425 million as compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and interest expense. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased $872 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. This increase was driven by the contractual increase in prices associated with Generations power sales agreement with ComEd and higher average margins on wholesale market sales as higher spot market prices more than compensated for higher fuel prices and the impact of higher nuclear generation. 107 Table of Contents Operating Revenues. For 2005 and 2004, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,775 $ 3,749 $ 1,026 27.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,341 3,227 114 3.5 % Total energy sales revenue 8,116 6,976 1,140 16.3 % Retail gas sales 613 448 165 36.8 % Trading portfolio 17 17 n.m. Other revenue (a) 300 279 21 7.5 % Total revenue $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 17.4 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. n.m. Not meaningful Sales (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 121,961 110,465 11,496 10.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 72,376 92,134 (19,758 ) (21.4 )% Total sales 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% Trading volumes of 26,924 GWhs and 24,001 GWhs for 2005 and 2004, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates increased $1,026 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. The increase in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $635 million increase from overall higher prices associated with Generations PPA with ComEd and a $391 million increase from higher electric sales volume. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement as of April 30, 2004 with ComEd, effective January 1, 2005, Generation began receiving overall higher prices from ComEd for its purchased power. The higher sales volumes to ComEd and PECO resulted from favorable weather conditions in the summer and winter periods in the ComEd and PECO service territories and an increase in the number of customers returning from alternative electric suppliers in 2005 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 879 Volume (526 ) Sale of Boston Generating (239 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 114 (a) Sales to Boston Generating of $9 million were included in other revenue for 2004. Wholesale and retail sales increased $114 million due to an increase in market prices in 2005 compared to the prior year. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher fuel prices (e.g. oil and natural gas). The increase in price was partially offset by lower volumes of generation capacity sold to the market in 2005 as compared to 2004. Generation had less power to sell into the market as a result of higher demand for power sold to affiliates in 2005 and the expiration of its purchase power agreement with Midwest Generation in 2004. The remaining decrease in wholesale and retail sales of $239 million was due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. 108 Table of Contents Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales increased $165 million primarily due to significantly higher gas prices in the overall market. Trading portfolio. Trading portfolio income increased $17 million in 2005 compared to the prior year due to an increase in trading volumes. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Proprietary Trading Activities for further information. Other revenues. The increase in other revenues in 2005 was primarily due to an increase of $60 million associated with revenue from Generations operating services agreements with PSEG and Tamuin International, Inc. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $39 million related to lower fuel sales, a reduction in decommissioning revenue from ComEd and lower sales from tolling and gas management agreements. The increased revenue from the operating services agreements was substantially offset by a corresponding increase in Generations operating and maintenance expense. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 137,936 136,621 1,315 1.0 % Purchases non trading portfolio 42,623 48,968 (6,345 ) (13.0 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation (b) 13,778 17,010 (3,232 ) (19.0 )% Total supply 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants. (b) Fossil and hydroelectric generation decreased by 4,978 GWhs as a result of lower fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 845 Volume (93 ) Mark to market 9 Sale of Boston Generating (226 ) Other (64 ) Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 471 Price. The increase reflects overall higher market energy prices for purchased power and higher natural gas and oil prices in 2005 as compared to the prior year. The increase in unplanned outages in 2005 occurred during periods of higher energy prices, which caused Generation to purchase power in the market at high prices. Additionally, overall energy market conditions resulted in higher prices for raw materials (i.e., oil, gas and coal) used in the production of electricity. These factors contributed to an increase in the average purchase power costs of approximately $13 per MWh for 2005. Volume. The reduced volume in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market slightly offset by higher nuclear and fossil generation needed to meet ComEds and PECOs load requirements. Mark to market. Mark to market losses on hedging activities were $12 million for 2005 compared to losses of $3 million for 2004. 109 Table of Contents Boston Generating. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense associated with Boston Generating was due to the sale of the business in May 2004. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to lower transmission expense in 2005 as compared to the prior year resulting from the expansion of the PJM region due to new transmission owners joining PJM and reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM on May 1, 2004. Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2005 and 2004 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2005 2004 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 39.15 $ 33.94 15.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 46.16 35.03 31.8 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 41.76 34.43 21.3 % Average electric supply cost (b) excluding the trading portfolio $ 20.11 $ 17.60 14.3 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 21.65 $ 16.83 28.6 % (a) The increase in $/MWh is due to higher prices in 2005 associated with Generations PPA with ComEd. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: 2005 2004 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.03 $ 12.43 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 60.27 $ 47.11 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The nuclear fleet capacity factor was the same in 2005 as compared to 2004. Higher costs associated with the planned refuel outages and higher non outage operating costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2005 as compared to 2004. There were nine planned refueling outages and 25 non refueling outages in 2005 compared to nine planned refuel outages and 20 non refueling outages in 2004. During 2004, both Quad Cities units operated intermittently at Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. As of the third quarter of 2005, both of the Quad Cities units returned to EPU generation levels after extensive testing and load verification on new replacement steam dryers was completed. Near the end of 2005, the generation levels of both Quad Cities units were again reduced to pre EPU generation levels to address vibrationrelated equipment issues not directly related to the steam dryers. The units will be brought back to full EPU generation levels after all issues are addressed to ensure safe and reliable operations at the EPU output levels which is expected to occur in 2006. 110 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs $ 78 DOE Settlement in 2004 42 Tamuin International 44 Accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims 43 Nuclear operating services agreement 14 Pension, payroll and benefit costs (58 ) Boston Generating (62 ) Decommissioning related activity (38 ) Other 24 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 87 This net $87 million increase is attributable to the following: A $78 million increase in nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs due to an increase in nuclear maintenance costs of $44 million related to planned nuclear refueling outages for plants operated by Generation and the co owned Salem Generating Station, and increases in other nuclear operating and maintenance expenses of $34 million, primarily security and inflationary costs; A $42 million reimbursement in 2004 of costs incurred prior to 2004 for the storage of spent nuclear fuel associated with the DOE Settlement Agreement; A $44 million increase in expenses associated with Generations operating service agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc; The establishment of a $43 million liability in June 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (see further discussion in Note 17 to Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); and Costs of $14 million in 2005 associated with the Salem and Hope Creek Operating Services Agreement with PSEG, the reimbursement of which is included in other revenues. The increases in operating and maintenance expense described above were partially offset by lower payroll related expenses (a $58 million reduction), the elimination of $62 million in expenses at Boston Generating due to its sale in May 2004 and a $36 million reduction in the contractual obligation that Generation has to ComEd related to decommissioning obligations (which is included in the $38 million of decommissioning related activity in the table above). Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units of $36 million recorded in the third quarter of 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense as this asset was associated with retired nuclear units that do not have any remaining useful life. This decrease was partially offset by increased depreciation expense due to recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income for 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to a net increase in Generations reserves related to payroll taxes, sales and use taxes and other taxes other than income, partially offset by a reduction in taxes resulting from the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. 111 Table of Contents Other, Net. The decrease in other income for 2005 as compared to the prior year was primarily due to the $85 million gain ($52 million, net of taxes) on the disposal of Boston Generating recorded in May 2004, partially offset by gains of $36 million realized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 39.0% for 2005 compared to 38.1% for 2004. See Note 12 of Generations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Generation has sold or wound down substantially all components of AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe and results of AllEnergy have been presented as discontinued operations for 2005 within Generations Consolidated Statements of Income. See Notes 2 and 3 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithes and AllEnergys results of operations as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe as discontinued operations. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 14 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2003 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 14,133 $ 15,148 $ (1,015 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 4,929 6,194 1,265 Operating and maintenance expense 3,700 3,915 215 Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 1,295 1,115 (180 ) Operating income 3,499 2,409 1,090 Other income and deductions (922 ) (1,123 ) 201 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 2,577 1,286 1,291 Income taxes 713 389 (324 ) Income from continuing operations 1,870 892 978 Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (29 ) (99 ) 70 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,841 793 1,048 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 23 112 (89 ) Net income 1,864 905 959 Diluted earnings per share 2.78 1.38 1.40 Net Income. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 112 Table of Contents Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). Net income for 2003 reflects income of $112 million for the adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoptions of FIN 46 R, EITF 03 16 and SFAS No. 143. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased primarily due to decreased revenues at Enterprises due to the sale of InfraSource in 2003, the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and Generations adoption of EITF No. 03 11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and not Held for Trading Purposes as Defined in EITF Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 03 11) in the first quarter of 2004, which changed the presentation of certain power transactions and decreased 2004 operating revenues by $980 million. The adoption of EITF 03 11 had no impact on net income. Operating revenues were favorably affected by Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in 2003. Operating revenues were also favorably affected by increased volume growth and transmission revenues at ComEd and PECO collected from PJM, partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice initiatives. See further discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased primarily due to Generations adoption of EITF 03 11 during 2004 which resulted in a decrease in purchased power expense and fuel expense of $980 million. In addition, purchased power decreased due to Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in 2003, which was only partially offset by an increase in fuel expense, and the sale of Boston Generating in 2004. Purchased power represented 24% of Generations total supply in 2004 compared to 37% in 2003. Purchased power also decreased at ComEd and PECO due to unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice. See further discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. Generation recorded a $945 million charge (before income taxes) during 2003 to impair the long lived assets of Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense decreased primarily as a result of decreased expenses at InfraSource due to its sale in 2003 and decreased severance and severance related expenses, partially offset by increased expenses at Generation due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen. Operating and maintenance expense increased $65 million due to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service at ComEd, PECO and Generation, the acquisition of the remaining 50% in AmerGen in 2003 and the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units in 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense in 2004. The increase also resulted from increased amortization expense due to investments made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004 in synthetic fuel producing facilities and increased competitive transition charge amortization at PECO. These increases were partially offset by reduced depreciation and amortization expense at Enterprises due to the sale of InfraSource in 2003. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, the impairment of Boston Generatings long lived assets, operating and maintenance expense and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was primarily the result of increased taxes other than income in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due to the reduction of certain real estate tax accruals at PECO and Generation during 2003. 113 Table of Contents Other Income and Deductions. Other income and deductions in 2004 reflects interest expense of $828 million, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates of $154 million, debt retirement charges of $130 million (before income taxes) recorded at ComEd associated with an accelerated liability management plan, and an $85 million gain (before income taxes) on the 2004 sale of Boston Generating. Other income and deductions in 2003 reflects interest expense of $873 million and impairment charges of $255 million (before income taxes) related to Generations investment in Sithe. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased by $187 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in 2003, the deconsolidation of certain financing trusts during 2003 and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 28% for 2004 compared to 30% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003. Discontinued Operations. 2004 and 2003 discontinued operations consist of Sithes 2004 results (beginning April 1, 2004), certain qualifying components of Enterprises, and AllEnergy. AllEnergy is a business within Exelon Energy, which is a business within Generation. A discussion of the results of Sithe and AllEnergy is included in the Generation segment results discussion below. Enterprises after tax loss from discontinued operations of $78 million in 2003 and $13 million in 2004 decreased by $65 million primarily due to a 2004 gain on the sale of the Chicago operations of Thermal and a decrease in operating and maintenance expense of $401 million, partially offset by a decrease in revenues. At December 31, 2004, the remaining assets of the businesses associated with the former Enterprises segment totaled approximately $274 million in comparison to $697 million at December 31, 2003. Results of Operations by Business Segment Historically, Exelon had reported Enterprises as a segment. Exelon sold or unwound substantially all components of Enterprises in 2004 and 2003. As a result, Enterprises is no longer reported as a segment and is included within the other category within the results of operations by business segment below. Other consists of corporate operations, including Exelon Business Services Company, Enterprises and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. The comparison of 2004 and 2003 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to Generation. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, was transferred to Generation. The 2003 information related to the Generation segment discussed below has been adjusted to reflect the transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to the Generation segment. Exelon Energy Companys 2003 results, excluding intercompany eliminations, were as follows: Total revenues $ 660 Intersegment revenues 4 Operating revenues and purchased power from affiliates 200 Depreciation and amortization 1 Operating expenses 648 Interest expense 1 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 6 Income taxes 3 Income from continuing operations 3 Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (21 ) Net loss (18 ) 114 Table of Contents Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ 676 $ 702 $ (26 ) PECO 455 473 (18 ) Generation 657 (238 ) 895 Other 82 (45 ) 127 Total $ 1,870 $ 892 $ 978 Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ 676 $ 702 $ (26 ) PECO 455 473 (18 ) Generation 641 (259 ) 900 Other 69 (123 ) 192 Total $ 1,841 $ 793 $ 1,048 Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ 676 $ 707 $ (31 ) PECO 455 473 (18 ) Generation 673 (151 ) 824 Other 60 (124 ) 184 Total $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 959 115 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ (11 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 2,588 2,501 (87 ) Operating and maintenance 897 1,093 196 Depreciation and amortization 410 386 (24 ) Taxes other than income 291 267 (24 ) Total operating expense 4,186 4,247 61 Operating income 1,617 1,567 50 Other income and deductions Interest expense (369 ) (423 ) 54 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (26 ) 26 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (19 ) (19 ) Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) (130 ) Other, net 34 49 (15 ) Total other income and deductions (484 ) (400 ) (84 ) Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,133 1,167 (34 ) Income taxes 457 465 8 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 676 702 (26 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 5 (5 ) Net Income $ 676 $ 707 $ (31 ) Net Income. ComEds net income in 2004 decreased primarily due to costs associated with ComEds accelerated retirement of long term debt, partially offset by higher operating income. The decrease in operating and maintenance expense was primarily driven by lower severances charges. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2004 compared to the 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Weather $ (113 ) Customer choice (104 ) Rate changes and mix (75 ) Volume 178 Retail revenue (114 ) PJM transmission 164 T&O charges (41 ) Other (20 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 103 Decrease in operating revenues $ (11 ) 116 Table of Contents Weather. The weather impact for the year ended December 31, 2004 was unfavorable compared to the same period in 2003 as a result of milder weather in 2004. Cooling degree days decreased 12% and heating degree days decreased 6% in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003. Customer Choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd; however, as of December 31, 2004, no alternative electric supplier had approval from the ICC, and no electric utilities had chosen, to enter the ComEd residential market for the supply of electricity. 2004 2003 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 20,939 17,317 Percentage of total retail deliveries 24 % 20 % Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 22,161 20,300 Percentage of total retail customers (b ) (b ) Volume (GWhs) (a) 30,426 26,908 Percentage of total retail deliveries 35 % 31 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Rate Changes and Mix. In addition to a change in revenue from the change in rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 compared to 2003, revenue changed as a result of rate changes. Starting in the June 2003 billing cycle, the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component, decreased the collection of CTCs as compared to the respective prior year period. ComEds CTC revenues decreased by $135 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the same period in 2003. This decrease was partially offset by increased wholesale market prices which increased energy revenue received under the ComEd PPO and by increased average rates, resulting from a change in customer usage, paid by small and large commercial and industrial customers totaling $53 million. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, ComEd collected $169 million and $304 million, respectively, of CTC revenue. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Volume. ComEds electric revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of effects of weather and customer choice, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O Charges. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. 117 Table of Contents Purchased Power Expense. The changes in ComEds purchased power expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) PJM transmission $ 164 Volume 94 PJM administrative fees 15 Customer choice (87 ) Weather (57 ) T&O charges (22 ) Prices (7 ) Other (13 ) Increase in purchased power expense $ 87 PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. See Operating Revenues above. Volume. ComEds purchased power expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. PJM administrative fees. ComEd began paying PJM administrative fees upon its full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004. Customer choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to ComEds non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. Weather. ComEds purchased power expense decreased due to unfavorable weather conditions. T&O changes. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition, after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. Prices. ComEds purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to ComEds PPAs with Generation. 118 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses $ (115 ) Charge recorded at ComEd in 2003 (a) (41 ) Payroll expense (b) (25 ) Contractors (18 ) FERC annual fees (c) (11 ) Environmental charges (10 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (9 ) Incremental storm costs (7 ) Corporate allocations (d) 43 Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (196 ) (a) In 2003, ComEd reached an agreement with various Illinois retail market participants and other interested parties. (b) Due to fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEd is no longer directly charged annual fees by the FERC. PJM pays the annual FERC fees. (d) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in ComEd comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense $ 21 Other amortization expense 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 24 ComEds increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Recoverable transition costs amortization remained constant in 2004 as compared to 2003. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase was primarily attributable to a $25 million credit in 2003 for use tax payments for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger and a refund of $5 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2003 partially offset by a refund of $8 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2004. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense was primarily due to scheduled principal payments, debt retirements and prepayments, and refinancings at lower rates. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. During 2004, ComEd recorded $19 million of equity in net losses of subsidiaries as a result of ComEd deconsolidating their financing trusts. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt. In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $768 million of long term debt, of which $618 million was retired during the third quarter of 2004. During 2004, ComEd 119 Table of Contents recorded a charge of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of this charge included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Other, net. The change in other, net primarily results from the reversal of a $12 million reserve for potential plant disallowance in 2003 as a result of an agreement with various Illinois retail market participants and other interested parties, a reduction of AFDUC equity of $5 million during 2004 as a result of lower construction work in process balances and a $5 million decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC (formerly Unicom Investments, Inc.) as a result of a lower principal balance, which were partially offset by various other items. Income Taxes. ComEds effective income tax rate was 40.3% for 2004 and 39.8% 2003. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail ComEds electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 26,463 26,206 257 1.0 % Small commercial & industrial 21,662 23,334 (1,672 ) (7.2 %) Large commercial & industrial 6,913 6,955 (42 ) (0.6 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 1,893 2,297 (404 ) (17.6 %) Total full service 56,931 58,792 (1,861 ) (3.2 %) PPO Small commercial & industrial 4,110 3,912 198 5.1 % Large commercial & industrial 5,377 5,677 (300 ) (5.3 %) 9,487 9,589 (102 ) (1.1 %) Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 6,305 5,210 1,095 21.0 % Large commercial & industrial 14,634 12,110 2,524 20.8 % 20,939 17,320 3,619 20.9 % Total PPO and delivery only 30,426 26,909 3,517 13.1 % Total retail deliveries 87,357 85,701 1,656 1.9 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 120 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,295 $ 2,272 $ 23 1.0 % Small commercial & industrial 1,649 1,720 (71 ) (4.1 %) Large commercial & industrial 380 413 (33 ) (8.0 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 126 153 (27 ) (17.6 %) Total full service 4,450 4,558 (108 ) (2.4 %) PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 274 256 18 7.0 % Large commercial & industrial 304 312 (8 ) (2.6 %) 578 568 10 1.8 % Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 128 132 (4 ) (3.0 %) Large commercial & industrial 204 216 (12 ) (5.6 %) 332 348 (16 ) (4.6 %) Total PPO and delivery only 910 916 (6 ) (0.7 %) Total electric retail revenues 5,360 5,474 (114 ) (2.1 %) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 443 340 103 30.3 % Total operating revenues $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ (11 ) (0.2 %) (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. 121 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 4,487 $ 4,388 $ 99 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel expense 2,172 2,096 (76 ) Operating and maintenance 547 576 29 Depreciation and amortization 518 487 (31 ) Taxes other than income 236 173 (63 ) Total operating expense 3,473 3,332 (141 ) Operating income 1,014 1,056 (42 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (303 ) (324 ) 21 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (8 ) 8 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (25 ) (25 ) Other, net 18 2 16 Total other income and deductions (310 ) (330 ) 20 Income before income taxes 704 726 (22 ) Income taxes 249 253 4 Net income 455 473 (18 ) Preferred stock dividends 3 5 2 Net income on common stock $ 452 $ 468 $ (16 ) Net Income. PECOs net income in 2004 decreased primarily due to higher taxes other than income, due primarily to the reduction of real estate tax accruals in 2003, and higher depreciation and amortization expense due to increased CTC amortization, partially offset by higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense and lower operating and maintenance expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2004 compared to the 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Volume $ 148 $ 3 $ 151 Rate changes and mix 1 111 112 Weather (63 ) (21 ) (84 ) Customer choice (78 ) (78 ) Retail revenue 8 93 101 PJM transmission (15 ) (15 ) Other 3 10 13 Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues (12 ) 10 (2 ) Increase (decrease) in operating revenues $ (4 ) $ 103 $ 99 Volume. PECOs electric revenues increased as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. 122 Table of Contents Rate changes and mix. Electric revenues increased $1 million at PECO as a result of a $20 million increase related to a scheduled phase out of merger related rate reductions, offset by a $19 million decrease reflecting a change in rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 as compared to 2003. PECOs gas revenues increased due to increases in rates through PUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003, December 1, 2003 and March 1, 2004. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet for 2004 was 33% higher than the rate in 2003. PECOs purchased gas cost rates were reduced effective December 1, 2004. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were negatively affected by unfavorable weather conditions at PECO in 2004 compared 2003. In the PECO service territory, cooling and heating degree days were relatively unchanged and 5% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. For 2004 and 2003, 12% and 9%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by an alternative electric supplier. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. Also, operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2004 2003 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Number of customers at period end 101,500 312,600 Percentage of total retail customers 7 % 20 % Volume (GWhs) 4,605 3,135 Percentage of total retail deliveries 12 % 9 % The increase in energy provided by alternative electric suppliers was due to the assignment of residential customers to alternative electric suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PAPUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. The decrease in the number of customers served by alternative electric suppliers at year end 2004 was due to these residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Volume $ 69 $ (2 ) $ 67 PJM transmission (15 ) (15 ) Prices 18 111 129 Customer choice (78 ) (78 ) Weather (27 ) (15 ) (42 ) Other 15 15 Increase (decrease) in purchased power and fuel expense $ (33 ) $ 109 $ 76 123 Table of Contents Volume. PECOs purchased power and fuel expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPAs with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to PECOs residential customers selecting or being assigned to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. Weather. PECOs purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to unfavorable weather conditions. Other. PECOs fuel expense increased primarily due to increased off system sales of gas. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses $ (17 ) Automated meter reading system implementation costs at PECO in 2003 (16 ) Storm costs (a) (14 ) Payroll expense (b) (11 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (4 ) Corporate allocations (c) 34 Other (1 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (29 ) (a) Storm costs were significantly higher in 2003 primarily as a result of Hurricane Isabel. (b) PECO had fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in PECO comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization $ 31 Depreciation expense 1 Other amortization expense (1 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 31 PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income in 2004 was primarily attributable to a $58 million reduction of real estate tax accruals during 2003 and $12 million related to 124 Table of Contents the reversal of a use tax accrual in 2003 resulting from an audit settlement, partially offset by $4 million of lower payroll taxes in 2004. Interest Expense and Distributions on Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities. The aggregate of interest expense and distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt and refinancings at lower rates, partially offset by a reversal in 2003 of accrued interest expense on Federal income taxes of $8 million to reflect actual interest paid. Effective December 31, 2003, with the adoption of FIN 46 R, PECO deconsolidated its financing trusts (see Note 1 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). PECO no longer records distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiaries but records interest expense to affiliates related to PECOs obligations to the financing trusts. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. During 2004, PECO recorded $25 million of equity in net losses of subsidiaries as a result of deconsolidating its financing trusts. Other, Net. The increase was primarily attributable to a reversal in 2003 of accrued interest on Federal income taxes of $14 million to reflect actual interest received and gains on disposition of assets in 2004. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 35.4% for 2004 compared to 34.8% for 2003. See Note 8 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 10,349 11,358 (1,009 ) (8.9 %) Small commercial & industrial 6,728 6,624 104 1.6 % Large commercial & industrial 14,908 14,739 169 1.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 914 897 17 1.9 % Total full service 32,899 33,618 (719 ) (2.1 %) Delivery only (b) Residential 2,158 900 1,258 139.8 % Small commercial & industrial 1,687 1,455 232 15.9 % Large commercial & industrial 760 780 (20 ) (2.6 %) Total delivery only 4,605 3,135 1,470 46.9 % Total retail deliveries 37,504 36,753 751 2.0 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 125 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,317 $ 1,444 $ (127 ) (8.8 %) Small commercial & industrial 756 753 3 0.4 % Large commercial & industrial 1,113 1,090 23 2.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 80 80 Total full service 3,266 3,367 (101 ) (3.0 %) Delivery only (b) Residential 164 65 99 152.3 % Small commercial & industrial 86 75 11 14.7 % Large commercial & industrial 20 21 (1 ) (4.8 %) Total delivery only 270 161 109 67.7 % Total electric retail revenues 3,536 3,528 8 0.2 % Miscellaneous revenue (c) 203 215 (12 ) (5.6 %) Total electric and other revenue $ 3,739 $ 3,743 $ (4 ) (0.1 %) (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECO Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,949 61,858 (1,909 ) (3.1 %) Transportation 27,148 26,404 744 2.8 % Total 87,097 88,262 (1,165 ) (1.3 %) Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 702 $ 609 $ 93 15.3 % Transportation 18 18 Resales and other 28 18 10 55.6 % Total gas revenue $ 748 $ 645 $ 103 16.0 % 126 Table of Contents Results of Operations Generation 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 7,703 $ 8,586 $ (883 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 2,307 3,620 1,313 Fuel 1,704 1,930 226 Operating and maintenance 2,201 1,874 (327 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 286 200 (86 ) Taxes other than income 166 120 (46 ) Total operating expenses 6,664 8,689 2,025 Operating income (loss) 1,039 (103 ) 1,142 Other income and deductions Interest expense (103 ) (88 ) (15 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) 49 (63 ) Other, net 130 (268 ) 398 Total other income and deductions 13 (307 ) 320 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,052 (410 ) 1,462 Income taxes 401 (176 ) (577 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 651 (234 ) 885 Minority interest 6 (4 ) 10 Income (loss) from continuing operations 657 (238 ) 895 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (45 ) (35 ) (10 ) Income taxes (29 ) (14 ) 15 Loss from discontinued operations (16 ) (21 ) 5 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 641 (259 ) 900 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 32 108 (76 ) Net income (loss) $ 673 $ (151 ) $ 824 Net Income (Loss). Generations net income in 2004 increased from 2003 due to a number of factors. The increase in Generations 2004 net income was driven primarily by charges incurred in 2003 for the impairment of the long lived assets of Boston Generating of $945 million (before income taxes) and the impairment and other transaction related charges of $280 million (before income taxes) related to Generations investment in Sithe. Also, 2004 results were favorably affected by the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen and an increase in revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, primarily due to the decrease in average realized costs resulting from the increased success in the hedging program of fuel costs in 2004. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles recorded in 2004 included a benefit of $32 million, net of income taxes, related to the adoption of FIN 46 R and in 2003 included income of $108 million, net of income taxes related to the of adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these effects. 127 Table of Contents Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily as a result of the adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in revenues of $980 million in 2004 as compared with the prior year. Generations sales in 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Revenues (in millions) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,749 $ 3,831 $ (82 ) (2.1%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,227 4,107 (880 ) (21.4%) Total energy sales revenues 6,976 7,938 (962 ) (12.1%) Retail gas sales 448 414 34 8.2% Trading portfolio 1 (1 ) (100.0%) Other revenue (a) 279 233 46 19.7% Total revenues $ 7,703 $ 8,586 $ (883 ) (10.3%) Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 110,465 112,688 (2,223 ) (2.0%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 92,134 112,816 (20,682 ) (18.3%) Total sales 202,599 225,504 (22,905 ) (10.2%) (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements and fossil fuel sales. Trading volumes of 24,001 GWhs and 32,584 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2004, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric Sales to Affiliates. Sales to ComEd and PECO declined $82 million in 2004 as compared to the prior year. The lower sales to ComEd and PECO were primarily driven by cooler than normal summer weather and lower average transfer prices in 2004 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase(decrease) Effects of EITF 03 11 adoption (a) $ (966 ) Sale of Boston Generating (370 ) Addition of AmerGen operations 189 Other operations 267 Decrease in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (880 ) (a) Does not include $14 million of EITF 03 11 reclassifications related to fuel sales that are included in other revenues. The adoption of EITF 03 11 on January 1, 2004 resulted in the netting of certain revenues and the associated purchased power and fuel expense in 2004. The sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 resulted in less revenues from this entity in 2004 compared to the prior year. The acquisition of AmerGen resulted in increased market and retail electric sales of approximately $189 million in 2004. The remaining increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily due to higher volumes sold to the market at overall higher prices. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher coal prices in the Midwest region and higher oil and gas prices in the Mid Atlantic region. 128 Table of Contents Retail Gas Sales. Retail gas sales increased $34 million as a result of higher natural gas prices in 2004. Other revenues. Other revenues include increased sales from tolling agreements, offset by a decrease in fossil fuel revenues. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply of sales in 2004 and 2003, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 136,621 117,502 16.3% Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 48,968 83,692 (41.5%) Fossil and hydroelectric generation (c, d) 17,010 24,310 (30.0%) Total supply 202,599 225,504 (10.2%) (a) Excludes AmerGen for 2003. AmerGen generated 20,135 GWhs during the year ended December 31, 2004. (b) Sales in 2004 do not include 25,464 GWhs that were netted with purchased power GWhs as a result of the reclassification of certain hedging activities in accordance with EITF 03 11. Includes PPAs with AmerGen, which represented 12,667 GWhs in 2003. (c) Fossil and hydroelectric supply mix changed as a result of decreased fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. (d) Excludes Sithe and Generations investment in TEG and TEP. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase (decrease) Effects of the adoption of EITF 03 11 $ (980 ) Addition of AmerGen operations (344 ) Sale of Boston Generating (290 ) Midwest Generation (122 ) Price (13 ) Mark to market adjustments on hedging activity (14 ) Volume 267 Other (43 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (1,539 ) Adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in purchased power and fuel expense of $980 million. Addition of AmerGen Operations. As a result of Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in AmerGen in December 2003, purchased power decreased $379 million. In prior periods, Generation reported energy purchased from AmerGen as purchased power expense. The decrease in purchased power was partially offset by an increase of $35 million related to AmerGens nuclear fuel expense. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in fuel and purchased power expense for Boston Generating is due primarily to the sale of the business in May 2004. Midwest Generation. The volume of purchased power acquired from Midwest Generation declined in 2004 as a result of Generation exercising its option to reduce the capacity purchased from Midwest Generation, as announced in 2003. 129 Table of Contents Price. The decrease reflects the forward hedging of fuel at lower costs than 2003 realized costs. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities at Generation were $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to losses of $16 million for 2003. Hedging activities in 2004 relating to Boston Generating operations accounted for a gain of $4 million and hedging activities relating to other Generation operations in 2004 accounted for losses of $6 million. Volume. Generation experienced increases in purchased power and fuel expense due to increased market and retail electric sales throughout its various sales regions. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to lower transmission expense resulting from reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM. Generations average margins per megawatt hour (MWh) sold for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2004 2003 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 33.94 $ 34.00 (0.2%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 35.03 36.40 (3.8%) Total excluding the trading portfolio 34.43 35.20 (2.2%) Average electric supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (a) $ 17.60 $ 24.61 (28.5%) Average margin excluding the trading portfolio 16.83 10.59 58.9% (a) Average electric supply cost includes purchased power, and fuel costs associated with electric sales and PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. Average electric supply cost does not include purchased power and fuel cost associated with retail gas sales. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. In connection with the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003, Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes). See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Generations ownership interest in Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Generation Increase(decrease) Addition of AmerGen operations $ 331 Decommissioning related costs (a) 50 Refueling outage costs (b) 50 Pension, payroll and benefit costs, primarily associated with The Exelon Way (84 ) DOE Settlement (c) (52 ) Sale of Boston Generating (12 ) Other 44 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 327 (a) Includes $40 million due to AmerGen asset retirement obligation accretion not included in 2003. (b) Includes refueling outage cost of $43 million at AmerGen not included in 2003. (c) See Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the spent nuclear fuel storage settlement agreement with the DOE. 130 Table of Contents The increase in operating and maintenance expense was primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in Generations consolidated results for 2004. Decommissioning related costs increased primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in 2004 compared to the prior year. Accretion expense includes accretion of the asset retirement obligation and adjustments to offset the earnings impacts of certain decommissioning related activities revenues earned from ComEd and PECO, income taxes and depreciation of the ARC asset to zero. The increase in operating and maintenance expense was partially offset by reductions in payroll related costs, the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 and the settlement with the DOE to reimburse Generation for costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power costs data for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Generation 2004 2003 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5% 93.4% Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.43 $ 12.53 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 47.11 $ 43.25 (a) Includes AmerGen and excludes Salem, which is operated PSEG Nuclear. (b) Includes PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. The higher nuclear capacity factor and lower nuclear production costs were primarily due to ten fewer unplanned outages which offset the impact of one additional planned refuel outage. The lower production cost in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the lower fuel costs and the impact of the spent fuel storage cost settlement agreement with the DOE which offset the added cost for one additional planned refuel outage and costs associated with the Dresden generator repairs during outages in the fourth quarter of 2004. In 2004 as compared to 2003, the Quad Cities Units intermittently operated at pre Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the immediate expensing of an ARC, totaling $49 million, recorded in 2004 for which no useful life remains. The ARC was originally recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 143, which requires the establishment of an asset to offset the impact of an increased asset retirement obligation (ARO). See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the 2004 update to the ARO and ARC. The remaining increase is due to capital additions and the consolidation of AmerGen. These increase were partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense related to the Boston Generating facilities, which were sold in May 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 38% for 2004 compared to 43% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to income taxes associated with nuclear decommissioning trust activity, income tax deductions related to non taxable employee benefits and the dilution of the permanent income tax benefits due to the increase in pre tax income in 2004. See Note 12 of Generations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. In 2004, the loss from discontinued operations included Sithes results from April 1, 2004 through the end of the year and the results from AllEnergy, a former subsidiary of Exelon Energy. Generation had accounted for the investment in Sithe as an unconsolidated equity method investment prior to its consolidation on March 31, 2004 pursuant to FIN 46 R. The loss from discontinued operations in 2003 included the results of AllEnergy. Sithes net impact to Generation was a loss of $19 million in 2004, while AllEnergy produced $3 million of net income in 2004. In 2003, AllEnergy had a net loss of $21 million. See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 131 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Exelons businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. These capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. Exelons access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on Exelon and its subsidiaries credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that Exelon no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon has access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1.5 billion that it currently utilizes to support its commercial paper programs. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Exelon primarily uses its capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay common stock dividends, fund its pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. Exelon spends a significant amount of cash on construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, Exelon has historically operated with a working capital deficit. However, Exelon expects operating cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake, other than the proposed merger with PSEG which will require the issuance of Exelon common stock in exchange for PSEG common stock, may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows will be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice and future regulatory proceedings on their revenues and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory proceedings. Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Cash flows from operations have been a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements. Taking into account the factors noted above, Exelon also obtains cash from non operating sources such as the proceeds from the debt issuance in 2005 to fund Exelons $2 billion pension contribution (see Note 10 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in the rate regulatory environments of ComEd and PECO, although any effects are not expected to hinder the ability of PECO to fund its business requirements. Under Illinois law enacted in 1997, ComEd is required, beginning in 2007, to purchase energy in the wholesale energy markets in order to meet the retail energy needs of ComEds customers because ComEd does not own any generation. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell energy beginning in 2007 is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there may be potential material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. On January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power by ComEd for the time period after 2006. The procurement process is similar to the process described in the Procurement Case with some modifications to enhance consumer protection. The auction will be administered by an independent auction manager, with oversight by the ICC staff. The first auction is scheduled to take place during the fall of 2006, at which time ComEds entire load will be up for bid. To mitigate the effects of changes in future prices, 132 Table of Contents the load will be staggered in three year contracts. To further mitigate the impact on its residential customers of transitioning to this process, ComEd has offered to develop a cap and deferral proposal to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers, some or all of which could require regulatory or legislative approval to implement. A cap and deferral proposal, generally speaking, would limit the procurement costs that ComEd could pass through to its customers for a specified period of time and allow ComEd to collect any unrecovered procurement costs in later years. Additionally, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the IRS, to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. As discussed in Note 12 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, this tax obligation is significant. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations: 2005 2004 Variance Net income $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,910 2,274 1,636 Income taxes 138 293 (155 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets andliabilities (b) (821 ) 237 (1,058 ) Pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments, net (2,003 ) (270 ) (1,733 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 2,147 $ 4,398 $ (2,251 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment of goodwill, investments and long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. The reduction of cash flows from operations during the current year is primarily the result of $2 billion of discretionary contributions to Exelons pension plans during the first quarter of 2005, which was initially funded through a term loan agreement, as further described in the Cash Flows from Financing Activities section below. Of the total contribution, ComEd, PECO and Generation contributed $803 million, $109 million and $844 million, respectively. ComEds and PECOs contributions were funded by capital contributions from Exelon. The Generation contribution was primarily funded by capital contributions from Exelon and included $2 million from internally generated funds. Exelon did not contribute to its pension plans in subsequent quarters of 2005. Discretionary tax deductible pension plan payments were $439 million in 2004. Exelon also contributed $11 million during 2004 to the pension plans needed to satisfy minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Cash flows provided by operations for 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ 2,147 $ 4,398 ComEd 247 1,330 PECO 704 983 Generation 972 1,947 Excluding the March 2005 discretionary pension contributions discussed above, changes in Exelons, ComEds, PECOs and Generations cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. 133 Table of Contents In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations and the discretionary pension contributions discussed above, significant operating cash flow impacts for ComEd and Generation for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: ComEd In the third quarter of 2005, ComEd settled $325 million of interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges for a loss of $15 million which was paid in October 2005. This was recorded as a pre tax charge to net income because the underlying transaction for which these interest rate swaps were entered into is no longer probable of occurring. During 2004, ComEd paid $86 million for prepayment premiums on the retirement of debt. Generation During 2005, Generation had net disbursements of counterparty collateral of $187 million compared to $73 million of net collections of counterparty collateral in 2004. The increase in cash outflows from 2004 was primarily due to changes in collateral requirements resulting from increased activity within exchange based markets for energy and fossil fuel. During 2005, Generation had net payments of approximately $165 million primarily due to increased use of financial instruments to hedge future sales of power and future purchases of fossil fuel. During 2005, Exelon received a $102 million Federal income tax refund for capital losses generated in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. In December 2004, TXU and Generation terminated a tolling agreement and entered into a new agreement. Upon termination of the original agreement, Generation received a cash payment of $172 million. The resulting gain was deferred and will be recognized as income over the contractual term of the new agreement. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities for 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ (2,487 ) $ (1,739 ) ComEd (479 ) 486 PECO (241 ) (251 ) Generation (1,294 ) (1,103 ) Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2005 and projected amounts for 2006 are as follows: 2005 2006 ComEd $ 776 $ 925 PECO 298 333 Generation 1,067 1,115 Other (a) 24 68 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 2,165 $ 2,441 (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations. 134 Table of Contents Projected capital expenditures and other investments for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 50% of the projected 2006 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO are for continuing projects to maintain and improve the reliability of their transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amount is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. Exelon is continuing to evaluate its total capital spending requirements. Exelon anticipates that ComEds and PECOs capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings and the issuance of debt or preferred securities or capital contributions from Exelon. Generation. Generations capital expenditures for 2005 reflect additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages) and nuclear fuel. Exelon anticipates that Generations capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Other significant investing activities for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $102 million and $56 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Exelon received cash proceeds of $76 million, net of $2 million held in escrow at December 31, 2004, from the sale of its investments in affordable housing in 2004. Cash proceeds of $227 million, net of transaction costs and contingency payments on prior year dispositions, were received during 2004 from the sales of Exelon Thermal Holdings, Inc., substantially all of the operating businesses of Services, and Enterprises investments in PECO TelCove and other equity method and cost basis investments of Enterprises. Early settlement on an acquisition note receivable from the 2003 disposition of InfraSource resulted in cash proceeds of $30 million during 2004. ComEd As a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool, $308 million and $97 million were returned to ComEd during 2005 and 2004, respectively. PECO During 2005, $26 million was returned to PECO as a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool and during 2004, $34 million was contributed by PECO. Generation During 2005, Generation received approximately $52 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to the retired units. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Specifically, subsidiaries of Generation closed on the acquisition of Reservoir Capital Groups 50% interest in Sithe for cash payments of $97 million and the sale of 100% of Sithe to Dynegy, for net cash proceeds of $103 million. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Sithe. 135 Table of Contents On March 31, 2004, Generation consolidated the assets and liabilities of Sithe under the provisions of FIN 46 R, which resulted in an increase in cash of $19 million. See Notes 1 and Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the FIN 46 R consolidation of Sithe. Generation received cash proceeds of $42 million from the January 2004 sale of three gas turbines. During 2004, Generation used $29 million of restricted cash related to Sithes operating activities and used $11 million of restricted cash to support the operations of Boston Generating and provided $4 million for certain environmental obligations. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ (19 ) $ (2,627 ) ComEd 240 (1,820 ) PECO (500 ) (676 ) Generation 93 (739 ) On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement. The loan proceeds were used to fund discretionary contributions of $2 billion to Exelons pension plans, including contributions of $803 million, $109 million and $842 million by ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. To facilitate the contributions by ComEd, PECO and Generation, Exelon contributed the corresponding amounts to the capital of each company. On April 1, 2005, Exelon entered into a $500 million term loan agreement that was subsequently fully borrowed to reduce this $2 billion term loan. During the second quarter of 2005, $200 million of this $500 million term loan, as well as the remaining $1.5 billion balance on the $2 billion term loan described above, were repaid with the net proceeds received from the issuance of the long term senior notes discussed below. The $300 million outstanding balance under the term loan agreement bears interest at a variable rate determined, at Exelons option, by either the Base Rate or the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the term loan agreement). On November 30, 2005, the term loan was amended and restated to extend the agreement from December 1, 2005 to September 16, 2006. See Note 10 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. On June 9, 2005, Exelon issued and sold $1.7 billion of senior debt securities pursuant to its senior debt indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, consisting of $400 million of 4.45% senior notes due 2010, $800 million of 4.90% senior notes due 2015 and $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2035. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay the $1.5 billion in remaining principal due on the $2 billion term loan agreement and $200 million of the $500 million term loan agreement referenced above. Exelon may redeem some or all of the notes at any time prior to maturity at a specified redemption price. The notes are unsecured and rank equally with the other senior unsecured indebtedness of Exelon. Additionally, Exelon settled interest rate swaps for a net payment of $38 million and paid approximately $12 million of fees in connection with the debt offering. In 2005, ComEd used funding received from $324 million of commercial paper to retire long term debt. In 2004, ComEd retired $1.2 billion of long term debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity in accordance with an accelerated liability management plan and retired $728 million of long term debt due to financing affiliates. Additionally, in 2004, Generation paid $27 million of 136 Table of Contents a note payable to Sithe. During 2004, Exelon also issued $164 million of commercial paper, net of payments, and received cash proceeds of $33 million from the settlement of interest rate swaps. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ (1,070 ) $ (831 ) ComEd (498 ) (457 ) PECO (473 ) (394 ) Generation (857 ) (662 ) On January 24, 2006, Exelons board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2006 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2006. The dividend is payable on June 10, 2006, to shareholders of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2006, provided the Merger with PSEG with has not closed. See ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for additional information. The declaration and payment of dividends by ComEd is a matter for determination by the board of directors of ComEd. The ComEd board of directors, at a meeting held in December 2005, determined that the board would consider the dividend policy of ComEd at a subsequent meeting. The ComEd board has not discussed dividend policy in depth or taken action to establish or revise ComEds dividend policy. If and to the extent that future dividends from ComEd are less than the level of dividends determined in accordance with past practices at ComEd, Exelon expects that distributions from Generation would be increased. Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $222 million and $240 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, Exelon purchased treasury shares totaling $362 million and $82 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Intercompany Money Pool. ComEds net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool increased $140 million during 2005. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool decreased $191 million and $162 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper by Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. At December 31, 2005, Exelon, along with ComEd, PECO and Generation, participated with a group of banks in a $1 billion unsecured revolving facility maturing on July 16, 2009 and a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on October 31, 2006. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. 137 Table of Contents At December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had the following sublimits and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower BankSublimit (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon $ 100 $ 100 $ ComEd 650 623 459 PECO 350 350 220 Generation 400 353 311 (a) Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. (b) Available capacity represents the bank sublimit net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit facilities. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum LIBOR adder is 170 basis points. The average interest rates on commercial paper in 2005 for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were approximately 3.28%, 4.13%, 3.44% and 4.12%, respectively. The credit agreements require Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and, in the case of Exelon and Generation, revenues from Sithe and interest on the debt of its project subsidiaries. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2005: Exelon ComEd PECO Generation Credit agreement threshold 2.65 to 1 2.25 to 1 2.25 to 1 3.25 to 1 At December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. On February 10 through 13, 2006, Generation entered into separate additional credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $875 million, which may be drawn down in the form of loans and or letters of credit. The additional credit facilities are for a term of 364 days and contain the same terms as the revolving credit facilities described above. The credit facilities will be used primarily to meet short term funding requirements and to issue letters of credit. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2005, the capital structures of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated ComEd PECO (a) Generation Long term debt 35 % 25 % 19 % 29 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 20 12 50 Common equity 39 57 26 Members equity 64 Preferred securities 1 Notes payable 6 6 4 7 Minority interest 138 Table of Contents (a) As of December 31, 2005, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.2 billion receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table, but is excluded from the percentages in this footnote), consisted of 38% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 3% notes payable and 58% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. (b) Includes $4.5 billion, $1.3 billion and $3.2 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property and CTCs of ComEd and PECO or mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the corporate treasurer. ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon and UII, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, may participate as lenders. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the money pool by participant during 2005 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2005: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2005Contributed (Borrowed) ComEd $ 517 $ 200 $ (140 ) PECO 210 20 8 Generation 54 540 (92 ) BSC 30 156 (16 ) UII, LLC 3 Exelon 242 241 Sithe Long Term Debt Debt totaling approximately $820 million was eliminated from the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as a result of the sale of Sithe on January 31, 2005. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the sale of Sithe. Security Ratings Exelons, ComEds, PECOs and Generations access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2005: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa2 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior secured debt Baa1 (a) A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 Transition bonds (c) Aaa AAA AAA Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 139 Table of Contents (a) Downgraded by Moodys Investor Service from A3 to Baa1 on December 15, 2005. (b) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (c) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On September 30, 2005, Moodys Investors Service placed ComEds ratings under review for a possible downgrade due to the adverse regulatory environment in Illinois as described in Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On December 15, 2005, Moodys Investor Service downgraded the long term debt and preferred stock ratings of ComEd. ComEds short term rating for commercial paper was not downgraded. All of ComEds ratings remain on review for possible downgrade. The ratings outlook for Exelon, Generation and PECO were unchanged. On October 3, 2005, Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P) lowered its corporate credit ratings and senior unsecured debt ratings on Exelon and its subsidiaries due to the adverse regulatory environment in Illinois as described in Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The short term debt ratings and senior secured ratings were unaffected. The ratings on all Exelon affiliates remain on CreditWatch with negative implications pending the completion of the merger with PSEG. On January 9, 2006, Fitch Ratings revised the rating outlook on the long term debt and preferred stock of ComEd to negative from stable. The rating outlooks on all other Exelon affiliates remain stable. None of Exelons borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under Exelons credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit its counterparties and Generation to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Shelf Registrations As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd and PECO had current shelf registration statements for the sale of $300 million, $555 million and $550 million, respectively, of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of Exelon, ComEd or PECO to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Restrictions The issuance of long term debt or equity securities by ComEd requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their financing needs or in connection with a specific financing. 140 Table of Contents Under PUHCA, the SEC had financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations and Exelons financings. As a result of the repeal of PUHCA, effective February 8, 2006, the SECs financing jurisdiction under PUHCA for ComEds and PECOs short term financings and Generations financings reverted to FERC and Exelons financings are no longer subject to regulatory approvals. On February 7, 2006, FERC issued a blanket authorization for the acquisition of securities pursuant to the Exelon Utility Money Pool Agreement, subject to the same limits and reporting requirements imposed by the SEC under PUHCA. The FERC order is effective for one year instead of the usual two year effective period. The one year period will allow Exelon to maintain the status quo while FERC determines whether on rehearing to amend its rules to make future applications unnecessary (e.g., blanket authorizations for all money pool transactions). Because PSE&G was not an applicant requesting participation in the Exelon Utility Money Pool, the FERC denied Exelons request to allow PSE&G to participate in the Exelon Utility Money Pool post merger. On December 7, 2005, ComEd and PECO filed applications for short term financing authority with the FERC in the amounts of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. In February 2006, ComEd and PECO received orders from the FERC approving their requests, effective February 8, 2006 through December 31, 2007. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in November 2000 that became effective again with the repeal of PUHCA. If the FERC proceeding relating to Generations market based rate authority results in revocation of that authority, Generations blanket financing authority may also be revoked. If that financing authority is revoked, it is possible that the revocation of financing authority would be effective prospectively. It is also possible that the revocation of financing authority might be retroactive to October 2, 2005. FERC has adopted regulations that would grandfather prior SEC approvals of financings at a companys election. The FERC regulations require that companies intending to issue securities in reliance on their SEC financing orders file with FERC a copy of their SEC financing order within 30 days after the effective date of PUHCA repeal. In light of the potential uncertainty relating to the possible revocation of FERCs blanket financing authority, Exelon has filed its SEC financing order with the FERC. The SEC financing order contains certain terms, limits, and reporting requirements which Exelon continues to review to determine the extent to which it would be subject to such conditions. Under applicable law, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at ComEd, PECO or Generation may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. At December 31, 2005, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.2 billion, including ComEds retained deficit of $(81) million consisting of $1,099 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends offset by an unappropriated retained deficit of ($1,180) million, PECOs retained earnings of $649 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $1,002 million. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries, has investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45k (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45k contains a provision under which credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. 141 Table of Contents The following table (in dollars) provides the estimated phase out range for 2006 and 2007 based on the per barrel price of oil. The table also contains the annual average New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. index (NYMEX) future prices per barrel at December 31, 2005 for 2006 and 2007. Estimated2006 Estimated2007 Beginning of Phase Out Range (a) $ 59 $ 61 End of Phase Out Range (a) 75 76 Annual Average NYMEX Future Price 65 66 (a) Estimated phase out ranges are calculated using inflation rates published by the IRS after year end. The inflation rate used by Exelon to estimate the 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges was 2%. Based on the 2006 and 2007 NYMEX futures prices at December 31, 2005, Exelon estimates there will be a phase out of tax credits of 38% and 36% in 2006 and 2007, respectively. This would decrease Exelons net income as compared to 2005 by as much as $38 million and $36 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. These estimates can change significantly due to the volatility in oil prices. The purchase price for Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities is comprised of fixed and variable components. The fixed component is in the form of a non recourse note that requires nonrefundable quarterly payments of principal and interest to sellers. The variable component is based on the value of the estimated tax credits that will be allocated to Exelon. Exelons subsidiaries are also required to make capital contributions based on the allocated amount of tax credits to the operators to fund the operating losses. Given the refundable nature of the variable components of the purchase price and operating losses paid to the sellers and operators of the facilities, respectively, Exelons results of operations and cash flows are not anticipated to be affected by a phase out of tax credits due to a rise in crude oil prices to the extent of these variable components (notwithstanding the differences in the timing of refundable variable payments and the associated refunds). However, Exelons results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected to the extent that Exelon is not allocated enough tax credits to cover the principal and interest payments due on the non recourse notes representing the non refundable fixed component of the purchase price. Absent any efforts to mitigate market price exposure, a phase out could result in the reduction of the non operating net income generated by the investments and could result in an estimated after tax non operating loss of up to $70 million per year in the event all tax credits are completely eliminated, exclusive of any impacts related to the intangible assets. In 2005, Exelon and Generation entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of this exposure. These derivatives could result in after tax cash proceeds to Exelon of up to $42 million and $42 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively, in the event the tax credits are completely phased out. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. 142 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2011 and beyond 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 8,140 $ 405 $ 1,125 $ 669 $ 5,941 Long term debt to financing trusts 4,508 507 1,950 1,506 545 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 4,199 697 767 691 2,044 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,588 267 399 173 749 Capital leases 46 2 4 4 36 Operating leases 766 55 108 92 511 Purchase power obligations 8,800 2,124 1,672 1,258 3,746 Fuel purchase agreements 4,299 754 1,235 933 1,377 Other purchase obligations (b) 987 211 283 275 218 Chicago agreement (c) 42 6 12 12 12 Regulatory commitments 10 10 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 906 906 Obligation to minority shareholders 46 3 5 5 33 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 11 11 Asset retirement obligations (d) 4,157 66 13 12 4,066 Total contractual obligations $ 38,505 $ 5,118 $ 7,573 $ 5,630 $ 20,184 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2005. The contributions will be funded in part by additional debt anticipated to be issued in 2005. Estimated future payments associated with the anticipated debt issuance have not been included in the table above. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (d) Represents the present value of Generations obligation to decommission nuclear plants and ComEds, PECOs and Generations conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. AROs associated with assets that have been fully depreciated but which are still in service have been reflected as payments due in 2006. 143 Table of Contents ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2011 and beyond Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 2,839 $ 328 $ 564 $ 230 $ 1,717 Long term debt to financing trusts 1,348 307 680 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,488 420 238 207 623 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 731 75 95 52 509 Operating leases 153 16 37 30 70 Other purchase commitments (b) 22 14 8 Chicago agreement (c) 42 6 12 12 12 Regulatory commitments 10 10 Asset retirement obligations (d) 151 62 12 11 66 Total contractual obligations $ 6,784 $ 1,238 $ 1,646 $ 542 $ 3,358 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (d) Represents conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. AROs associated with assets that have been fully depreciated but which are still in service have been reflected as payments due in 2006. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2011 and beyond (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 1,184 $ $ 450 $ 30 $ 704 Long term debt to financing trusts 3,159 199 1,270 1,506 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 361 52 93 72 144 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 857 192 304 121 240 Operating leases 8 3 2 2 1 Other purchase commitments (b) 220 37 46 46 91 Asset retirement obligations (c) 20 4 1 1 14 Total contractual obligations $ 5,809 $ 487 $ 2,166 $ 1,778 $ 1,378 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) Represents conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. AROs associated with assets that have been fully depreciated but which are still in service have been reflected as payments due in 2006. 144 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment Due within Due 2011 and beyond (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 1,805 $ 12 $ 24 $ 13 $ 1,756 Intercompany money pool 92 92 Interest obligations related to long term debt (a) 854 94 185 184 391 Capital leases 46 2 4 4 36 Operating leases 534 31 59 53 391 Purchase power obligations 8,800 2,124 1,672 1,258 3,746 Fuel purchase agreements 4,299 754 1,235 933 1,377 Other purchase commitments (b) 688 112 219 230 127 Obligation to minority shareholders 46 3 5 5 33 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 11 11 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 906 906 Asset retirement obligations (c) 3,986 3,986 Total contractual obligations $ 22,067 $ 3,235 $ 3,403 $ 2,680 $ 12,749 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2005. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) Represents the present value of Generations obligation to decommission nuclear plants and conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. For additional information about: regulatory commitments, see Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. commercial paper, see Note 10 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the spent nuclear fuel and decommissioning obligations, see Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the contribution required to Exelons pension plans to satisfy ERISA minimum funding requirements, see Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments and fuel purchase agreements, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the obligation to minority shareholders, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. asset retirement obligations, see Notes 13 and 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics 145 Table of Contents financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $14 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon as of December 31, 2005 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permits ComEd, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, Generation was required to re measure its decommissioning liabilities at fair value and recorded an asset retirement obligation of $2.4 billion on January 1, 2003. Increases in the asset retirement obligation to decommission nuclear generating facilities resulting from the passage of time are recorded as operating and maintenance expense. Increases in the asset retirement obligation resulting from a remeasurement are recorded with a corresponding ARC, which is a component of property, plant and equipment. At December 31, 2005, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets related to its nuclear fueled generating facilities was approximately $4 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin after 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held approximately $5.6 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Exelons commercial commitments as of December 31, 2005. Refund Claims ComEd and PECO have several pending tax refund claims seeking acceleration of certain tax deductions and additional tax credits. ComEd and PECO are unable to estimate the ultimate outcome of these refund claims and will account for any amounts received in the period the matters are settled with the IRS and state taxing authorities. ComEd and PECO had entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of these refund claims with the IRS. ComEd and PECO previously made refundable prepayments to the tax consultants of $11 million and $5 million, respectively. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome of the claims and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS if any. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. A portion of ComEds tax benefits, including any associated interest for periods prior to the merger among PECO, Unicom Corporation (Unicom), the former parent company of ComEd, and Exelon (PECO / Unicom Merger) would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill pursuant to a reallocation of the PECO / Unicom Merger purchase price. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. 146 Table of Contents In 2004, the IRS granted preliminary approval for one of ComEds refund claims and final approval was obtained in the first quarter of 2005. The refund and associated interest have been recorded in the financial statements. Approximately $14 million of tax and interest benefit received in the second quarter of 2005 has been reflected in the financial statements of which $12 million ($9 million after tax) was recorded to goodwill under the provisions of EITF Issue 93 7, Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination. As a result, ComEd recorded consulting expenses of $5 million (pre tax) in 2004. Based on negotiations with the IRS during the first half of 2005, PECO believed it would receive a tax refund related to one of its claims and recorded a $6 million (pre tax) charge related to expected consulting fees during the first quarter of 2005. However, as the result of a recent unfavorable tax court decision involving another utility related to a similar type of refund claim, PECO no longer believes payment of the consulting fees is probable and reversed the $6 million (pre tax) charge during the third quarter 2005. PECO is unable to predict the final impact of its future negotiations with the IRS on this matter. Variable Interest Entities Sithe. As of December 31, 2004, Generation was a 50% owner of Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Generation consolidated Sithe within its financial statements as of March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of Generations entire interest in Sithe that was completed on January 31, 2005. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Trust IV in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding, LLC, ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, PECO Trust III and PETT were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Amounts of $1.3 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005. See Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities in Part I, ITEM 1 for further discussion of the nature, purpose and history of Exelons involvement with these financing trusts. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2010 based on the November 2005 amendment to this agreement. At December 31, 2005, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $195 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, (SFAS No. 140) and a $30 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a long term note payable and 147 Table of Contents reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as long term debt due within one year. At December 31, 2004, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $179 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, and a $46 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a long term note payable and reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as long term debt due within one year. PECO must continue to service these receivables and must maintain the level of the accounts receivable at $225 million. If PECO fails to maintain that level, the cash that would otherwise be received by PECO under this program must be held in escrow until the level is met. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposit. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the American Nuclear Insurers Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 148 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Exelon is exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, ComEd and Generation) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation is primarily exposed to commodity price risk with ComEd having modest exposure due to the need to purchase ancillary services and the commodity price risk in relation to the CTC revenues collected from customers. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and they are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case those changes are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being cash flow hedged is three years. Generation has an estimated 88% hedge ratio in 2006 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations unhedged non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price 149 Table of Contents of electricity is approximately a $61 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes an 88% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA, as amended, with ComEd under which Generation has agreed to supply all of ComEds load obligations through 2006. At times, ComEds load obligations are greater than the capacity of Generations owned generating units in the ComEd region. As such, Generation procures power through purchase power and lease agreements and has contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. In 2004, Generation retained 3,858 MWs of capacity under the terms of three then existing PPAs with Midwest Generation, LLC (Midwest Generation). Generations contract to purchase power from Midwest Generation expired at the end of 2004. As a result, Generations exposure to market price movements in the ComEd region in 2005 increased compared to 2004 due in part to the expiration of the Midwest Generation contract. Consequently, after 2004, Generation must procure the necessary power for ComEd through market purchases and other means to the extent not provided by Generations own generating facilities. Following the expiration of the Illinois transition period and end of PPA between Generation and ComEd in 2006, all of Generations supply in the ComEd region will be available for sale into the wholesale markets and exposed to changes in market prices. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted in a gain of $17 million (before income taxes), which represented a net unrealized mark to market gain of $15 million and realized gain of $2 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $90,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for year ended December 31, 2005 of $4,564 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officer (CCRO). 150 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2005. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2004 $ (216 ) Total change in fair value during 2004 of contracts recorded in earnings 158 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (197 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 475 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (512 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market 147 Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2004 (a) (145 ) Total change in fair value during 2005 of contracts recorded in earnings 108 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (105 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 583 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (879 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (102 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ (540 ) (a) Includes a $39 million liability related to Sithe and the related mark to market expense which were reclassified to discontinued operations. The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2005 and 2004: December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Current assets $ 916 $ 403 Noncurrent assets 286 373 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,202 776 Current liabilities (1,282 ) (598 ) Noncurrent liabilities (460 ) (323 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (1,742 ) (921 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities $ (540 ) $ (145 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2005 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 151 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net liabilities, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 andBeyond Total Fair Value Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ 3 Prices provided by other external sources (388 ) (134 ) (2 ) (524 ) Total $ (386 ) $ (133 ) $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ (521 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ 85 $ (57 ) $ 5 $ $ $ $ 33 Prices provided by other external sources (43 ) 25 (5 ) (23 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods (24 ) (5 ) (29 ) Total $ 18 $ (37 ) $ $ $ $ $ (19 ) (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate andOther Hedges Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2004 $ (133 ) $ (16 ) $ (149 ) Changes in fair value (312 ) 17 (295 ) Disposal of existing Boston Generating contracts 16 16 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 290 290 Exelon Energy Company opening balance 2 2 Sithe Energies, Inc. opening balance (10 ) (10 ) Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2004 (137 ) (9 ) (146 ) Changes in fair value (533 ) 5 (528 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income 356 356 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2005 $ (314 ) $ (4 ) $ (318 ) 152 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to revenue collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO. Revenues collected from customers electing the PPO include commodity charges at market based prices and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. Because the change in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by the change in CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. ComEds CTC revenues are also collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. ComEds CTC rates are reset once a year in the spring, and customers can elect to lock in their CTC rates for a one or multiple year terms. ComEd anticipates that CTC revenues will range from $35 million to $50 million in 2006. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. ComEd also has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to ancillary services that are purchased from PJM. These services are not provided for in the current PPA between Generation and ComEd. Credit Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. For the year ended December 31, 2005, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3.5% of its electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 7.6% of its retail electric and gas revenues. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Generation Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. They further delineate that exposure by the credit rating of the 153 Table of Contents counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through ISOs which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2005 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 472 $ 53 $ 419 2 $ 147 Non investment grade 60 11 49 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 41 41 Internally rated non investment grade 38 38 Total $ 611 $ 64 $ 547 2 $ 147 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Rating as of December 31, 2004 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 151 $ 33 $ 118 $ Non investment grade 98 20 78 1 63 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 3 3 Total $ 265 $ 53 $ 212 1 $ 63 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2005 (a) Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 472 $ $ $ 472 Non investment grade 56 4 60 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 38 3 41 Internally rated non investment grade 17 14 7 38 Total $ 583 $ 21 $ 7 $ 611 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is 154 Table of Contents possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets that are administered by ISOs: PJM, ISO New England, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets included a $507 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2005. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1,492 million, less unearned income of $985 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Variable Rate Debt. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2005, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $3 million, $1 million and $2 million decrease in Exelons, ComEds and Generations, respectively, pre tax earnings. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a decrease in pre tax earnings of less than $1 million at PECO. Fair Value Hedges. At December 31, 2005, ComEd had interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million. At December 31, 2005, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(1) million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2005. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount ComEd would pay the counterparties. On January 17, 2006, ComEd settled these swaps and paid $1 million. The aggregate fair value of ComEds interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 155 Table of Contents 2005 is estimated to be a favorable impact to ComEd of $5 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount counterparties would pay ComEd. The aggregate fair value of ComEds interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2005 is estimated to be a favorable impact to the counterparties of $7 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount ComEd would pay the counterparties. Cash Flow Hedges. During 2005, ComEd entered into five forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $325 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of a future financing. At the time of the swap trades, the debt issuance that these swaps were hedging was considered probable; therefore, ComEd accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as cash flow hedges. However, in September 2005, the future financing was postponed indefinitely and consequently, ComEd unwound the $325 million forward starting interest rate swaps and paid the counterparties approximately $15 million. As a result, Exelon and ComEd recognized a pre tax loss of $15 million which was included in other, net within the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, during 2005, Exelon settled interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $1.5 billion and recorded pre tax losses of $39 million which will be recorded as additional interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2005, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $391 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 156 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon General Exelon is a public utility holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following business segments: ComEd, whose business includes the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose businesses include the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Generation, which consists principally of the electric generating facilities and wholesale energy marketing operations of Generation, the competitive retail sales business of Exelon Energy Company and certain other generation projects. See Note 22 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Through 2004, Exelon identified three operating segments Energy Delivery (ComEd and PECO), Generation and Enterprises. Exelon sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises in 2004 and 2003. As such, Exelon ceased reporting Enterprises as a segment as of January 1, 2005. Additionally, as of the fourth quarter of 2005, Exelon reconsidered its previous presentation of segments and concluded that it would have been more appropriate to treat ComEd and PECO as separate operating segments for prior periods as opposed to the single Energy Delivery operating segment. If ComEd and PECO would have previously been identified as separate operating segments, Exelon concluded that ComEd and PECO, nonetheless, would have been aggregated due to their similar economic characteristics, as a single reportable segment for segment reporting purposes. This aggregation would have resulted in substantially the same presentation in previously filed reports. As a result of developments during the fourth quarter of 2005, Exelon has concluded that it can no longer aggregate ComEd and PECO as a single reportable segment. These developments include the approaching end of the regulatory transition period and rate freeze in Illinois, the opposition to rate increases expressed by the Attorney General of the State of Illinois, changes in the ComEd Board of Directors and the selection of executive officers of ComEd with no responsibilities outside of ComEd. For more information regarding ComEds regulatory issues, see ComEd Retail Electric Services below and Note 4 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, ComEd and PECO are no longer reported as a combined Energy Delivery reportable segment. As such, Exelon now presents three reportable segments: ComEd, PECO and Generation. Prior period presentation has been adjusted for comparative purposes. Exelons corporate operations, through its business services subsidiary, BSC, provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology, supply management and corporate governance services. ComEd and PECO also receive additional services from BSC, including planning and engineering of delivery systems, management of construction, operation and maintenance of the transmission and delivery systems, and management of other support services. Generation receives additional services from BSC for inventory and information technology support and management of other support services. These costs are allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. 78 Table of Contents Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $923 million in 2005 as compared to $1,864 million in 2004 and diluted earnings per average common share were $1.36 for 2005 as compared to $2.78 for 2004. The decrease was primarily due to the following: a $1.2 billion impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill; losses for the cumulative effect of adopting FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (FIN 47); an increase to the reserve for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims; increased depreciation and amortization expense, including CTC amortization at PECO; the gain associated with the sale of Boston Generating recorded in 2004; a gain recorded in 2004 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle due to the adoption of FIN 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46 R); and a gain recorded in 2004 from the reimbursement of costs incurred prior to 2004 under a settlement with DOE related to spent nuclear fuel storage. The factors driving the overall decrease in net income above were partially offset by the following: higher margins on Generations wholesale market sales; favorable weather conditions in Exelons service territories; reduced severance and severance related charges; lower pension expense as a result of a discretionary pension contribution made in the first quarter of 2005; and losses associated with 2004 debt retirements at ComEd. Investment Strategy. In 2005, Exelon continued to follow a disciplined approach in investing to maximize earnings and cash flows from its assets and businesses, while selling those investments that do not meet its strategic goals. Highlights from 2005 include the following: Proposed Merger with PSEG On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into a Merger Agreement with PSEG, and shareholders of both companies approved the transaction in July 2005. The Merger also received approval from regulatory agencies in New York, Texas and Connecticut, in addition to the FERC approval in June 2005. On September 13, 2005, Exelon announced that PECO had reached a partial settlement, subject to approval, with some but not all of the parties related to the Pennsylvania review of the Merger. The PAPUC approved the settlement and the Merger on January 27, 2006. In New Jersey, hearings for the Merger review have been extended; they are expected to conclude on March 27, 2006. Settlement discussions began in December 2005 and are expected to resume after the hearings conclude. Scheduled dates for the Administrative Law Judges (ALJ) initial decision and final order from the NJBPU also may be extended, but no firm dates have been set. 79 Table of Contents Other remaining regulatory reviews include the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). Exelon will attempt to reach a settlement that satisfactorily resolves issues and allows the Merger to close in the second quarter of 2006. However, in the absence of an earlier settlement, Exelon expects that the closing of the Merger will occur in the third quarter of 2006. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Sithe On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Specifically, subsidiaries of Generation closed on the acquisition of Reservoir Capital Groups 50% interest in Sithe and the sale of 100% of Sithe to Dynegy. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale of Generations investment in Sithe. Financing Activities. During 2005, Exelon met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources, including capital markets, and through bank borrowings. On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement to fund pension contributions in the first quarter of 2005. On April 1, 2005, Exelon entered into a $500 million term loan agreement that was subsequently fully borrowed to reduce the $2 billion term loan referenced above. On June 9, 2005, Exelon issued and sold $1.7 billion of senior debt securities pursuant to its senior debt indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, consisting of $400 million of 4.45% senior notes due 2010, $800 million of 4.90% senior notes due 2015 and $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2035. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay the $1.5 billion in remaining principal due on the $2 billion term loan agreement and $200 million of the $500 million term loan agreement. See Notes 10 and 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Regulatory Developments Illinois. As discussed in ITEM 1. Business and Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power by ComEd for the time period after 2006. To mitigate the impact on its residential customers of transitioning to this process, ComEd has offered to develop a cap and deferral proposal to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers, some or all of which could require regulatory or legislative approval to implement. Several parties have indicated that they will petition the ICC for rehearing and will challenge the ICC decision in court. ComEd has also petitioned for rehearing of the ICC decision on certain issues, but that petition was denied by the ICC on February 8, 2006. It is also possible that interested parties could introduce legislation in Illinois in attempt to modify the procurement process or the rates that ComEd may charge consumers for the power ComEd purchases to meet the needs of consumers. The Illinois General Assembly has held hearings concerning generation procurement after 2006, and it may take action on this issue. ComEd also has filed and has pending a regulatory proceeding before the ICC, referred to as the Rate Case. The Rate Case seeks, among other things, to allocate the costs of delivering electricity and to adjust ComEds rates for delivering electricity effective January 2, 2007. The Rate Case also proposes procedures under which ComEd will allocate the costs from the Procurement Case among ComEd customers. Several intervenors in the Rate Case, including the ICC staff and the Illinois Attorney General, have suggested, and provided testimony, that ComEds rates should actually be reduced. The results of the Rate Case are not expected to be known until the third quarter of 2006. Market Based Rates Filing. On July 5, 2005, the FERC approved Generations continued authority to charge market based rates for wholesale sales of electricity, including to its affiliates ComEd and PECO. In the same order, the FERC stated that Generation had failed to address the affiliate abuse issue of the FERCs market based rate eligibility test. On August 4, 2005, Generation filed a Petition for Rehearing asking the FERC to rescind that part of its market based rate order. Generation expects the FERC to make a decision in 2006. If the FERC were to suspend Generations market based rate 80 Table of Contents authority, Generation would be required to supply and implement a plan for mitigation of market power. FERCs default mitigation would require Generation to file and obtain FERC acceptance of cost based rate schedules or schedules tied to a public index. In addition, the loss of market based rate authority would subject Generation to the accounting, record keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on public utilities with cost based rate schedules. Repeal of PUHCA. Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act, PUHCA was repealed effective February 8, 2006. Under the Energy Policy Act, FERC obtained additional jurisdiction for merger review and for the review of affiliate transactions, and FERCs financing jurisdiction resumed to the extent that it was preempted by PUHCA. Exelon continues to review the effects of the Energy Policy Act and FERCs proposed rules with respect to future financing authority for its subsidiaries. To the extent that the SECs jurisdiction under PUHCA preempted certain aspects of state regulation, the repeal of PUHCA permits the states in which Exelon and its subsidiaries operate to adopt additional regulations if they so choose, absent any preemption by the FERC. See ITEM 1. Business and Note 4 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on other regulatory matters. Outlook for 2006 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: Exelon expects the Merger will result in synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Although Exelon expects to achieve these anticipated benefits of the Merger, achieving them, including synergies, is subject to a number of uncertainties. See ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Certain governmental officials and consumer advocacy groups claim that ComEds retail rates for electricity should not be based solely on its cost to procure electricity and capacity in the wholesale market. Additionally, certain parties to ComEds Rate Case proceeding have indicated ComEds rates for delivering energy should be reduced and not increased. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell electricity beginning in 2007 is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, or if ComEd is unable to recover its costs and investment through the Rate Case, there may be material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. However, the ICCs unanimous approval of the reverse auction process, barring any successful appeals or change in law, should provide ComEd with stability and greater certainty that it will be able to procure energy and pass through the costs of that energy to ComEds customers beginning in 2007 through a transparent market mechanism in the reverse auction process. The results of the Rate Case should be known during the third quarter of 2006. As of December 31, 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have not significantly impacted the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. However, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita are expected to impact the already increasing costs of certain supplies and the lead time to order these supplies in 2006. As a result, costs of such supplies could be $30 million to $40 million higher in 2006 compared to 2005, impacting the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries, has investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45k (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45k contains a provision under which credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. The estimated annual average price per barrel of oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. index (NYMEX) would have to exceed $59 and $61 in 2006 and 2007, respectively, for a 81 Table of Contents phase out to begin. In 2005, the estimated annual average price per barrel of $57 did not exceed the bottom of the phase out range of $58. As a result, Exelons interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities increased Exelons net income by $81 million during 2005. Based on the 2006 and 2007 NYMEX futures prices at December 31, 2005, Exelon estimates there will be a phase out of tax credits of 38% and 36% in 2006 and 2007, respectively. This would decrease Exelons net income as compared to 2005 by as much as $38 million and $36 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. These estimates can change significantly due to the volatility in oil prices. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Registrants Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Nuclear Decommissioning (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate the fair value of its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that fair value, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at a minimum of every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the estimated base year decommissioning costs, which are included in the decommissioning cost studies discussed above, through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost levels and various decommissioning timing scenarios. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 15% or minus 10% over the base cost scenario. The probabilities assigned to various timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals and the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposal. 82 Table of Contents Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation recorded with a corresponding change to the asset retirement cost (ARC) asset. However, if the ARO relates to retired units, which have no remaining useful life and, likewise, no existing ARC, the offset may be recorded in current period earnings. Changes in the assumptions could affect future updates to the decommissioning obligation. For example, the 20 year average cost escalation rates used in the latest ARO calculation were approximately 3% to 4%. A uniform increase in these escalation rates of 25 basis points would increase the total ARO recorded by Exelon by approximately 9% or more than $350 million. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on an ongoing basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Conditional ARO (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation adopted FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (FIN 47). FIN 47 clarified that a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a long lived asset whose timing and or method of settlement are conditional on a future event is within the scope of SFAS No. 143. Under FIN 47, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are required to record a conditional ARO at its estimated fair value if that fair value can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had liabilities of $236 million, $151 million, $20 million and $65 million, respectively, associated with their conditional AROs. The adoption of FIN 47 required the Registrants to update an existing inventory, originally created for the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and to determine which, if any, of the conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated. The ability to reasonably estimate a conditional ARO was a matter of management judgment, based upon managements ability to estimate a settlement date or range of settlement dates, a method or potential method of settlement and probabilities associated with the potential dates and methods of settlement of its conditional AROs. In determining whether their conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated, management considered the Registrants past practices, industry practices, managements intent and the estimated economic lives of the assets. The fair value of the conditional AROs was then estimated using an expected present value technique. Additionally, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assessed the likelihood of recovering these obligations from customers which led to the recognition of regulatory assets. Changes in managements assumptions regarding settlement dates, settlement methods, assigned probabilities or recovery mechanisms could have a material effect on the liabilities recorded by each Registrant at December 31, 2005 as well as the associated cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle recorded at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and the associated regulatory assets recorded at Exelon, ComEd and PECO. The liabilities associated with conditional AROs will be adjusted on an ongoing basis due to the passage of time, new laws and regulations and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimates of undiscounted cash flows. These adjustments could have a significant impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Income of the Registrants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of FIN 47, see Notes 1 and 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 83 Table of Contents Asset Impairments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) As of December 31, 2004, Exelon and ComEd had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill, which related entirely to the goodwill recorded upon the acquisition of ComEd. Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires managements judgments, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. Exelon and ComEd performed their annual assessments of goodwill impairment as of November 1, 2005 and determined that goodwill was impaired by $1.2 billion. Exelon assesses goodwill impairment at its ComEd reporting unit; accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge at ComEd is fully reflected in Exelons results of operations. After reflecting the impairment, Exelon and ComEd have $3.5 billion of goodwill as of December 31, 2005. In the assessments, Exelon and ComEd estimated the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds purchase power agreement with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. Changes in assumptions regarding these variables or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of approximately 10% in ComEds expected discounted cash flows would result in additional impairment for both ComEd and Exelon of $1.2 billion. An additional impairment would require Exelon and ComEd to further reduce both goodwill and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power and costs of fuel. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Investments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had approximately $6,398 million, $75 million, $95 million and $5,705 million, respectively, of investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2005. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation consider investments to be impaired when a decline in fair value below cost is judged to be other than temporary. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, they evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, as 84 Table of Contents well as their intent and ability to hold the investment. The Registrants may also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee when reviewing an investment for impairment. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the investment and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, depreciation estimates are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of property, plant and equipment recorded and the depreciation charged to the financial statements. Historically, Generation has extended the estimated service lives of certain nuclear fuel generating facilities based upon Generations intent to apply for license renewals for these facilities. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC. The impact of the new rates, based on the study, which will be effective March 2006, is not expected to be material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans applicable to essentially all ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC employees and certain Enterprises employees. See Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for Exelons defined benefit pension plans and postretirement welfare benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon utilizes assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, rate of compensation increases and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.00% in 2005, 2004 and 2003. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 8.30% in 2005 compared to a range of 8.33% to 8.35% in 2004 and 8.40% for 2003. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The discount rate for determining the plan obligations was 5.60%, 5.75% and 6.25% at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The discount rates at December 31, 2004 and 2003 were selected by reference to the Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index adjusted to reflect the duration of expected future cash flows for pension and other postretirement welfare benefit payments. At 85 Table of Contents December 31, 2005, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of more than 400 Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement welfare benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement welfare benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation atDecember 31, 2005 Impact onPension Liability atDecember 31, 2005 Impact on 2006 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $683 $548 $50 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 45 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligationat December 31, 2005 Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability atDecember 31, 2005 Impact on 2006PostretirementBenefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 208 $ $ 24 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 6 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons postretirement benefit plans. To estimate the 2005 cost, Exelon assumed a health care cost trend rate of 9%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 5% in 2010, compared to the 2004 assumption of 10%, decreasing to an ultimate trend rate of 4.5% in 2011. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates in 2005 would have had the following effects (dollars in millions): Effect of a one percentage point increase in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ 41 on postretirement benefit obligation $ 399 Effect of a one percentage point decrease in assumed health care cost trend on total service and interest cost components $ (30 ) on postretirement benefit obligation $ (297 ) The assumptions are reviewed at the beginning of each year during Exelons annual review process and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. In 2005, Exelon incurred approximately $221 million in costs associated with its pension and postretirement benefit plans. The decrease in Exelons pension and postretirement benefit costs in 2005 compared to 2004 and 2003 was primarily attributable to discretionary pension contributions of $2 billion made during the first quarter of 2005. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71), which 86 Table of Contents requires Exelon, ComEd and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements as a one time extraordinary item and through impacts on continuing operations. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding regulatory issues. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. As of December 31, 2005, Exelon and PECO had recorded $4.4 billion of net regulatory assets within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2005, Exelon and ComEd had recorded $2.2 billion of net regulatory liabilities within their Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 21 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For each regulatory jurisdiction where they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction, the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. The electric businesses of both ComEd and PECO are currently subject to rate freezes or rate caps that limit the opportunity to recover increased costs and the costs of new investment in facilities through rates during the rate freeze or rate cap period. Because the current rates include the recovery and settlement of existing regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively, and rates in effect during the rate freeze or rate cap periods are expected to allow Exelon, ComEd and PECO to earn a reasonable rate of return during that period, management believes the existing regulatory assets and liabilities are probable of recovery. This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the Federal level and in the states where ComEd and PECO do business but is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off and recognized in current period earnings. A write off of regulatory assets could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants enter into derivatives to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation utilizes derivatives with respect to energy transactions to manage the utilization of its available generating capability and provisions of wholesale energy to its affiliates. Generation also utilizes energy option contracts and energy financial swap arrangements to limit the market price risk associated with forward energy commodity contracts. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for trading purposes. All of the Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). 87 Table of Contents The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133). Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Derivatives recorded at fair value on the balance sheet are presented as current or noncurrent mark to market derivative assets or liabilities. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction occurs. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon the assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery of the underlying item. This assessment is based primarily on internal models that forecast customer demand for electricity and gas supply. These models include assumptions regarding customer load growth rates, which are influenced by the economy, weather and the impact of customer choice, and generating unit availability, particularly nuclear generating unit capability factors. If it was determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchases or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings. Energy Contracts. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants use external dealer prices or internal valuation models that utilize assumptions of available market pricing curves. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the 88 Table of Contents Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties have a significant effect on the liabilities and expenses in their financial statements. Taxation The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. Other than as noted below, the Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2005 reflect the probable expected outcome of pending tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, and SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Environmental Costs As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had accrued liabilities of $128 million, $54 million, $47 million and $27 million, respectively, for environmental investigation and remediation costs. These liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties and the timing of the remediation work. Where timing and costs of expenditures can be reliably estimated, amounts are discounted. These amounts represent $89 million, $48 million, and $41 million of the total accrued for Exelon, ComEd, and PECO, respectively. Generation has no accrued environmental investigation and remediation costs recorded on a discounted basis. Where timing and amounts cannot be reliably estimated, amounts are recognized on an undiscounted basis. Such amounts represent $39 million, $6 million, $6 million and $27 million, respectively, of the total accrued liabilities for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. Estimates can be affected by the factors noted above as well as by changes in technology, regulations or the requirements of local governmental authorities. Asbestos Personal Injury Claims As of December 31, 2005, Exelon and Generation have approximately $50 million reserved in total for asbestos related bodily injury claims. Approximately $9 million of this amount relates to 120 open claims presented to Generation as of December 31, 2005, while the remaining $41 million of the reserve is for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030 based on actuarial assumptions and analysis. Exelons and Generations management each determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims beyond 2030 based on the historical claims data available and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating the future losses, management and the actuaries made various assumptions, including but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that related to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelon plans to obtain annual updates of the estimate of future losses. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon historical experience and third party actuarial studies. Projecting 89 Table of Contents future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. Management cautions, however, that these estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Severance Accounting (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) The Registrants provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with the Registrants and compensation level. The Registrants accrue severance benefits that are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in estimating severance charges is the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. The Registrants base their estimates on their current plans and ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate their businesses. Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation recorded severance charges (benefits) of $(14) million, $(9) million, $1 million and $(4) million, respectively, in 2005, and severance charges of $32 million, $10 million, $3 million and $2 million, respectively, in 2004, related to personnel reductions. The Registrants may incur further severance costs if they identify additional positions to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of ComEds, PECOs and Exelon Energys energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Customer accounts receivable of ComEd, PECO and Generation included estimates of $287 million, $175 million and $89 million, respectively, for unbilled revenue as of December 31, 2005 as a result of unread meters at ComEd, PECO and Exelon Energy. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding Exelon Energys, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Customer accounts receivable of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2005 include unbilled energy revenues of $435 million related to unbilled energy sales of Generation. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Generations revenue from service agreements, such as the nuclear Operating Service Agreement with PSEG Nuclear, is dependent upon when the services are rendered. Service agreements representing a cost recovery arrangement are presented gross within revenues for the amounts due from the party receiving the service, and the costs associated with providing the service are presented within operating and maintenance expenses. 90 Table of Contents Results of Operations (Dollars in millions except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 1,224 Purchased power and fuel expense 5,646 4,929 (717 ) Operating and maintenance expense 3,718 3,700 (18 ) Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,334 1,295 (39 ) Operating income 2,724 3,499 (775 ) Other income and deductions (829 ) (922 ) 93 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,895 2,577 (682 ) Income taxes 944 713 (231 ) Income from continuing operations 951 1,870 (919 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 14 (29 ) 43 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 965 1,841 (876 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 23 (65 ) Net income 923 1,864 (941 ) Diluted earnings per share $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ (1.42 ) Net Income. Net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1,207 million associated with ComEds goodwill and losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47, partially offset by higher realized prices on market sales at Generation and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoption of FIN 46 R. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to increased revenues at ComEd and PECO and increased revenues from non affiliates at Generation. The increase in revenues at ComEd and PECO was primarily due to favorable weather conditions, an increase in the number of customers choosing ComEd or PECO as their electric supplier and higher transmission revenues, partially offset by decreased CTC collections at ComEd. The increase in revenues from non affiliates at Generation was primarily due to higher prices on energy sold in the market, partially offset by an increase in the percentage of energy produced and sold to ComEd and PECO and the sale of Boston Generating in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased primarily due to overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices, partially offset by the decrease in fuel expense due to the sale of Boston Generating in 2004, favorable mark to market adjustments related to non trading activities and the expiration of the purchase power agreement with Midwest Generation in 2004. Purchased power represented 22% of Generations total supply in 2005 compared to 24% in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. 91 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a gain recorded in 2004 related to the DOE Settlement, an increase to the reserve for the estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims that was recorded in 2005, higher costs associated with planned nuclear refueling outages, and increased costs related to an operating agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc. (formerly Sithe International, Inc.), partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and decreased severance and benefit expense. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd recorded a $1,207 million charge during 2005 to impair its goodwill. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service, additional amortization of the CTC at PECO and accelerated amortization of PECOs current customer information and billing system, partially offset by the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units in 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, operating and maintenance expense, impairment of goodwill and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was the result of increased taxes other than income, partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and reduced property tax expense. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects a 2004 charge at ComEd associated with the accelerated retirement of debt and the related reduction in interest expense from these debt retirements and increased realized gains related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, partially offset by increased interest expense on short term debt at Exelon, increased losses from Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities and an $85 million gain recorded in 2004 on the sale of Boston Generating. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 50% for 2005 compared to 28% for 2004. Exclusive of the goodwill impairment charge, the effective income tax rate for 2005 was 30%. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises and AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Income. See Notes 2 and 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe, certain Enterprises businesses and AllEnergy as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe. The results of Sithe and AllEnergy are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations increased by $43 million from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. 92 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2005 and 2004 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ (676 ) $ 676 $ (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Generation 1,109 657 452 Other (a) (2 ) 82 (84 ) Total $ 951 $ 1,870 $ (919 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ (676 ) $ 676 $ (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Generation 1,128 641 487 Corporate (a) (7 ) 69 (76 ) Total $ 965 $ 1,841 $ (876 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ (685 ) $ 676 $ (1,361 ) PECO 517 455 62 Generation 1,098 673 425 Corporate (7 ) 60 (67 ) Total $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 93 Table of Contents Results of OperationsComEd 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 Operating expenses Purchased power 3,520 2,588 (932 ) Operating and maintenance 833 897 64 Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 413 410 (3 ) Taxes other than income 303 291 (12 ) Total operating expense 6,276 4,186 (2,090 ) Operating income (loss) (12 ) 1,617 (1,629 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (295 ) (369 ) 74 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) (19 ) 5 Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) 130 Other, net 8 34 (26 ) Total other income and deductions (301 ) (484 ) 183 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (313 ) 1,133 (1,446 ) Income taxes 363 457 94 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) (9 ) Net income (loss) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ (1,361 ) Net Loss. ComEds net loss in 2005 was driven by the impairment of goodwill and higher purchased power expense, partially offset by higher operating revenues due to favorable weather and due to the impacts of a 2004 charge associated with the accelerated retirement of long term debt and lower interest expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Weather $ 415 Customer choice 81 Rate changes and mix (66 ) Volume (3 ) Other (9 ) Retail revenue 418 PJM transmission 58 T&O / SECA rates (28 ) Other 13 Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 43 Increase in operating revenues $ 461 94 Table of Contents Weather. Revenues were higher by $415 million due to favorable weather conditions in 2005 compared to 2004. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather in non summer months reduces demand. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 90% and 1% higher, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. For 2005 and 2004, 33% and 35% of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by alternative electric suppliers or under the Power Purchase Option (PPO). All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2005, one alternative supplier was approved to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, no residential customers have selected this alternative supplier. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 19,310 20,939 Percentage of total retail deliveries 21 % 24 % Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 21,276 22,161 Percentage of total retail customers (b ) (b ) Volume (GWhs) (a) 30,905 30,426 Percentage of total retail deliveries 33 % 35 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Rate changes and mix. The change is primarily due to the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component of the CTC calculation which resulted in a decrease of $64 million to $105 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. As a result of increasing mitigation factors and changes in energy prices, ComEd anticipates that CTC revenues will range from $35 million to $50 million in 2006. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues increased by $58 million in 2005 due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O / SECA rates. Revenues decreased $28 million as a result of the elimination of T&O rates in accordance with FERC orders that became effective December 1, 2004. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd, and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power Expense below. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. 95 Table of Contents Purchased Power Expense. The changes in purchased power expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Prices $ 606 Weather 200 Customer choice 65 PJM 63 Volume 7 T&O collections / SECA rates (15 ) Other 6 Increase in purchased power expense $ 932 Prices. Purchased power increased due to higher prices associated with ComEds PPA with Generation of $497 million, and ancillary services of $109 million from PJM. In 2000, ComEd and Generation entered into a PPA that fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2004 based upon the then current market prices. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement as of April 30, 2004 with Generation, starting in January 1, 2005, ComEd began paying higher prices for its purchased power from Generation and ceased to procure its ancillary services from Generation. This agreement fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2006 based upon the current market prices as of April 30, 2004. Weather. The $200 million increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory, which increased the amount of electricity sold. Customer choice. The $65 million increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to fewer ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. PJM. The $63 million increase reflects higher transmission and purchased power expense of $57 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM and PJM administrative fees that increased by $6 million over 2004 fees. T&O Collections / SECA rates. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O rates for transmission service scheduled out of or across ComEds transmission system. Rates collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received by ComEd as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. ComEds purchased power expense increased $14 million due to ComEd no longer collecting T&O revenues in 2005. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005, ComEd recorded SECA collections net of SECA charges of $29 million. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O /SECA rates. 96 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses (a) $ (47 ) Employee fringe benefits (b) (18 ) Pension expense and deferred compensation (c) (15 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts (13 ) Injuries and damages (2 ) Corporate allocations (b) 15 Storm costs 14 Contractors 12 PSEG merger integration costs 8 Other (18 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (64 ) (a) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other postretirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 as compared to 2004. (b) Excludes severance related expenses and pension expense. Reflects fewer employees compared to prior year and a reduction in 2005 related to estimated medical plan fees. A portion of the employee reduction is offset by an increase in corporate allocations. (c) Pension expense in 2005 is lower than in 2004 due in large part to significant pension plan contributions made in the first quarter of 2005. See Note 13 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time (November 1). The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds purchase power agreement with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd has approximately $3.5 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2005. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense $ 17 Other amortization expense (14 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 3 The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. The decrease in other amortization expense was primarily due to completing the amortization of one of ComEds software packages in 2004. 97 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 13 Tax refund (b) 6 Other (7 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 12 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) During 2004, a refund was received for Illinois electricity distribution taxes. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense of $74 million for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to long term debt retirements and prepayments in 2004 pursuant to Exelons accelerated liability management plan and scheduled payments on long term debt owed to the ComEd Funding Trust. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt. In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $768 million of long term debt, of which $618 million was retired during the third quarter of 2004. During 2004, ComEd recorded a charge of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of this charge included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Loss on settlement of cash flow swaps (a) $ (15 ) Interest income on long term receivable from UII, LLC (b) (16 ) Other 5 Decrease in other, net $ (26 ) (a) See Note 14 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) The decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC resulted from this receivable being repaid in late 2004. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was (116.0)% and 40.3% for 2005 and 2004, respectively. Exclusive of the goodwill impairment charge, the effective rate for 2005 was 40.6%. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 12 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 98 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 30,042 26,463 3,579 13.5 % Small commercial & industrial 21,378 21,662 (284 ) (1.3 %) Large commercial & industrial 7,904 6,913 991 14.3 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,133 1,893 240 12.7 % Total full service 61,457 56,931 4,526 7.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 5,591 4,110 1,481 36.0 % Large commercial & industrial 6,004 5,377 627 11.7 % 11,595 9,487 2,108 22.2 % Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,677 6,305 (628 ) (10.0 %) Large commercial & industrial 13,633 14,634 (1,001 ) (6.8 %) 19,310 20,939 (1,629 ) (7.8 %) Total PPO and delivery only 30,905 30,426 479 1.6 % Total retail deliveries 92,362 87,357 5,005 5.7 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 99 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,584 $ 2,295 $ 289 12.6 % Small commercial & industrial 1,671 1,649 22 1.3 % Large commercial & industrial 408 380 28 7.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 132 126 6 4.8 % Total full service 4,795 4,450 345 7.8 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 385 274 111 40.5 % Large commercial & industrial 345 304 41 13.5 % 730 578 152 26.3 % Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 95 128 (33 ) (25.8 %) Large commercial & industrial 156 204 (48 ) (23.5 %) 251 332 (81 ) (24.4 %) Total PPO and delivery only 981 910 71 7.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,776 5,360 416 7.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 488 443 45 10.2 % Total operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 7.9 % (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. 100 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 423 Operating expenses Purchased power 2,515 2,172 (343 ) Operating and maintenance 549 547 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 566 518 (48 ) Taxes other than income 231 236 5 Total operating expense 3,861 3,473 (388 ) Operating income 1,049 1,014 35 Other income and deductions Interest expense (280 ) (303 ) 23 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) (25 ) 9 Other, net 14 18 (4 ) Total other income and deductions (282 ) (310 ) 28 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 767 704 63 Income taxes 247 249 2 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 520 455 65 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) (3 ) Net income 517 455 62 Preferred stock dividends 4 3 (1 ) Net income on common stock $ 513 $ 452 $ 61 Net Income. PECOs net income in 2005 increased primarily as a result of higher revenues, net of related purchased power expense, due to favorable weather and lower interest expense due to the scheduled retirement of debt owed to PETT, partially offset by higher CTC amortization. Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Rate changes and mix $ 72 $ 90 $ 162 Customer choice 118 118 Volume 101 (21 ) 80 Weather 54 10 64 Retail revenue 345 79 424 T&O / SECA rates 3 3 PJM transmission (3 ) (3 ) Other 9 (10 ) (1 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 9 (10 ) (1 ) Increase in operating revenues $ 354 $ 69 $ 423 101 Table of Contents Rate changes and mix. The increase in electric revenues at PECO attributable to rate changes and mix resulted from increased residential sales, which are billed at higher average rates relative to other customer classes. In addition, rates were higher in 2005 for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were higher in 2005 relative to 2004. The increase in gas revenues was due to increases in rates through PAPUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2004, March 1, 2005, June 1, 2005, September 1, 2005 and December 1, 2005. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2005 was 12% higher than the average rate for 2004. Customer choice. For 2005 and 2004, 5% and 12%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by alternative electric suppliers. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. Operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Number of customers at period end 44,500 101,500 Percentage of total retail customers 3 % 7 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 2,094 4,605 Percentage of total retail deliveries 5 % 12 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice was primarily related to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. This action followed the assignment of approximately 194,000 residential customers to alternative electric suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PAPUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. In 2005, additional customers returned to PECO as their energy supplier primarily as a result of two alternative energy suppliers exiting the market. Volume. The increase in electric revenues was primarily as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were positively affected by favorable weather conditions at PECO in 2005 compared to 2004. In the PECO service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 21% and 2% higher, respectively, than the prior year. T&O / SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power and Fuel Expense below. The elimination of T&O revenues and inclusion of SECA revenues had a minimal 102 Table of Contents impact on PECO as T&O revenues recognized in the past were not material and SECA revenues currently being recognized also are not material. See Note 2 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. Other wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. Electric revenues increased $9 million primarily due to increased wholesale sales, and gas revenues decreased $10 million primarily due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Prices $ 83 $ 90 $ 173 Customer choice 118 118 Weather 21 7 28 Volume 32 (15 ) 17 PJM transmission 11 11 SECA rates 9 9 Other (13 ) (13 ) Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 274 $ 69 $ 343 Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Weather. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to serving the increased demand due to favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory. Volume. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was due primarily to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005 and 2004, PECO recorded SECA charges of $10 million and $1 million, respectively. See Note 2 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O /SECA rates. Other. The decrease in gas fuel expense of $13 million was associated with decreased off system sales. 103 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Contractors (a) $ 8 Storm costs 7 Implementation of new customer information and billing system 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Severance related expenses (b) (14 ) Injuries and damages (6 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) The increase was primarily due to increases in vegetation management services compared to the prior year at PECO. (b) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other post retirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 compared to 2004. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization $ 37 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system 13 Depreciation expense 3 Other amortization expense (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 48 PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the pending merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system requires the accelerated amortization of PECOs current system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $10 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. If additional system changes are approved, additional accelerated depreciation may be required. The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Reduction in capital stock tax accrual in 2005 (a) $ (17 ) Reduction in real estate tax accrual in 2005 (b) (6 ) Taxes on utility revenues (c) 24 Other (6 ) Decrease in taxes other than income $ (5 ) 104 Table of Contents (a) Represents a reduction in 2005 of prior year capital stock tax accruals as a result of a favorable decision from the Pennsylvania Board of Finance and Revenue. (b) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in March 2005 following settlements between PECO and various taxing authorities related to prior year tax assessments. See Note 15 of PECOs Notes to the Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense at PECO of $23 million for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to scheduled payments on long term debt owed to PETT. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts of PECO due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 32.2% for 2005 compared to 35.4% for 2004. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to a state income tax benefit recorded as a result of the favorable settlement of a 2000 Pennsylvania corporate net income tax audit. See Note 8 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 10 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 13,135 10,349 2,786 26.9 % Small commercial & industrial 7,263 6,728 535 8.0 % Large commercial & industrial 15,205 14,908 297 2.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 962 914 48 5.3 % Total full service 36,565 32,899 3,666 11.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 334 2,158 (1,824 ) (84.5 %) Small commercial & industrial 1,257 1,687 (430 ) (25.5 %) Large commercial & industrial 503 760 (257 ) (33.8 %) Total delivery only 2,094 4,605 (2,511 ) (54.5 %) Total retail deliveries 38,659 37,504 1,155 3.1 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 105 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,705 $ 1,317 $ 388 29.5 % Small commercial & industrial 818 756 62 8.2 % Large commercial & industrial 1,173 1,113 60 5.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 84 80 4 5.0 % Total full service 3,780 3,266 514 15.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 25 164 (139 ) (84.8 %) Small commercial & industrial 63 86 (23 ) (26.7 %) Large commercial & industrial 13 20 (7 ) (35.0 %) Total delivery only 101 270 (169 ) (62.6 %) Total electric retail revenues 3,881 3,536 345 9.8 % Miscellaneous revenue (c) 212 203 9 4.4 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,093 $ 3,739 $ 354 9.5 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,751 59,949 (198 ) (0.3 %) Transportation 25,310 27,148 (1,838 ) (6.8 %) Total 85,061 87,097 (2,036 ) (2.3 %) Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 783 $ 702 $ 81 11.5 % Transportation 16 18 (2 ) (11.1 %) Resales and other 18 28 (10 ) (35.7 %) Total gas revenue $ 817 $ 748 $ 69 9.2 % 106 Table of Contents Results of Operations Generation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 Operating expenses Purchased power 2,569 2,307 (262 ) Fuel 1,913 1,704 (209 ) Operating and maintenance 2,288 2,201 (87 ) Depreciation and amortization 254 286 32 Taxes other than income 170 166 (4 ) Total operating expenses 7,194 6,664 (530 ) Operating income 1,852 1,039 813 Other income and deductions Interest expense (128 ) (103 ) (25 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (1 ) (14 ) 13 Other, net 95 130 (35 ) Total other income and deductions (34 ) 13 (47 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,818 1,052 766 Income taxes 709 401 (308 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 1,109 651 458 Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 1,109 657 452 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (45 ) 45 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 24 24 Income taxes 5 (29 ) (34 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (16 ) 35 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,128 641 487 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 32 (62 ) Net income $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 Net Income. Generations net income in 2005 increased $425 million as compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and interest expense. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased $872 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. This increase was driven by the contractual increase in prices associated with Generations power sales agreement with ComEd and higher average margins on wholesale market sales as higher spot market prices more than compensated for higher fuel prices and the impact of higher nuclear generation. 107 Table of Contents Operating Revenues. For 2005 and 2004, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,775 $ 3,749 $ 1,026 27.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,341 3,227 114 3.5 % Total energy sales revenue 8,116 6,976 1,140 16.3 % Retail gas sales 613 448 165 36.8 % Trading portfolio 17 17 n.m. Other revenue (a) 300 279 21 7.5 % Total revenue $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 17.4 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. n.m. Not meaningful Sales (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 121,961 110,465 11,496 10.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 72,376 92,134 (19,758 ) (21.4 )% Total sales 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% Trading volumes of 26,924 GWhs and 24,001 GWhs for 2005 and 2004, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates increased $1,026 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. The increase in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $635 million increase from overall higher prices associated with Generations PPA with ComEd and a $391 million increase from higher electric sales volume. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement as of April 30, 2004 with ComEd, effective January 1, 2005, Generation began receiving overall higher prices from ComEd for its purchased power. The higher sales volumes to ComEd and PECO resulted from favorable weather conditions in the summer and winter periods in the ComEd and PECO service territories and an increase in the number of customers returning from alternative electric suppliers in 2005 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 879 Volume (526 ) Sale of Boston Generating (239 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 114 (a) Sales to Boston Generating of $9 million were included in other revenue for 2004. Wholesale and retail sales increased $114 million due to an increase in market prices in 2005 compared to the prior year. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher fuel prices (e.g. oil and natural gas). The increase in price was partially offset by lower volumes of generation capacity sold to the market in 2005 as compared to 2004. Generation had less power to sell into the market as a result of higher demand for power sold to affiliates in 2005 and the expiration of its purchase power agreement with Midwest Generation in 2004. The remaining decrease in wholesale and retail sales of $239 million was due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. 108 Table of Contents Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales increased $165 million primarily due to significantly higher gas prices in the overall market. Trading portfolio. Trading portfolio income increased $17 million in 2005 compared to the prior year due to an increase in trading volumes. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Proprietary Trading Activities for further information. Other revenues. The increase in other revenues in 2005 was primarily due to an increase of $60 million associated with revenue from Generations operating services agreements with PSEG and Tamuin International, Inc. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $39 million related to lower fuel sales, a reduction in decommissioning revenue from ComEd and lower sales from tolling and gas management agreements. The increased revenue from the operating services agreements was substantially offset by a corresponding increase in Generations operating and maintenance expense. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 137,936 136,621 1,315 1.0 % Purchases non trading portfolio 42,623 48,968 (6,345 ) (13.0 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation (b) 13,778 17,010 (3,232 ) (19.0 )% Total supply 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants. (b) Fossil and hydroelectric generation decreased by 4,978 GWhs as a result of lower fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 845 Volume (93 ) Mark to market 9 Sale of Boston Generating (226 ) Other (64 ) Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 471 Price. The increase reflects overall higher market energy prices for purchased power and higher natural gas and oil prices in 2005 as compared to the prior year. The increase in unplanned outages in 2005 occurred during periods of higher energy prices, which caused Generation to purchase power in the market at high prices. Additionally, overall energy market conditions resulted in higher prices for raw materials (i.e., oil, gas and coal) used in the production of electricity. These factors contributed to an increase in the average purchase power costs of approximately $13 per MWh for 2005. Volume. The reduced volume in 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market slightly offset by higher nuclear and fossil generation needed to meet ComEds and PECOs load requirements. Mark to market. Mark to market losses on hedging activities were $12 million for 2005 compared to losses of $3 million for 2004. 109 Table of Contents Boston Generating. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense associated with Boston Generating was due to the sale of the business in May 2004. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to lower transmission expense in 2005 as compared to the prior year resulting from the expansion of the PJM region due to new transmission owners joining PJM and reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM on May 1, 2004. Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2005 and 2004 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2005 2004 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 39.15 $ 33.94 15.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 46.16 35.03 31.8 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 41.76 34.43 21.3 % Average electric supply cost (b) excluding the trading portfolio $ 20.11 $ 17.60 14.3 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 21.65 $ 16.83 28.6 % (a) The increase in $/MWh is due to higher prices in 2005 associated with Generations PPA with ComEd. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: 2005 2004 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.03 $ 12.43 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh $ 60.27 $ 47.11 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The nuclear fleet capacity factor was the same in 2005 as compared to 2004. Higher costs associated with the planned refuel outages and higher non outage operating costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2005 as compared to 2004. There were nine planned refueling outages and 25 non refueling outages in 2005 compared to nine planned refuel outages and 20 non refueling outages in 2004. During 2004, both Quad Cities units operated intermittently at Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. As of the third quarter of 2005, both of the Quad Cities units returned to EPU generation levels after extensive testing and load verification on new replacement steam dryers was completed. Near the end of 2005, the generation levels of both Quad Cities units were again reduced to pre EPU generation levels to address vibrationrelated equipment issues not directly related to the steam dryers. The units will be brought back to full EPU generation levels after all issues are addressed to ensure safe and reliable operations at the EPU output levels which is expected to occur in 2006. 110 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs $ 78 DOE Settlement in 2004 42 Tamuin International 44 Accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims 43 Nuclear operating services agreement 14 Pension, payroll and benefit costs (58 ) Boston Generating (62 ) Decommissioning related activity (38 ) Other 24 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 87 This net $87 million increase is attributable to the following: A $78 million increase in nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs due to an increase in nuclear maintenance costs of $44 million related to planned nuclear refueling outages for plants operated by Generation and the co owned Salem Generating Station, and increases in other nuclear operating and maintenance expenses of $34 million, primarily security and inflationary costs; A $42 million reimbursement in 2004 of costs incurred prior to 2004 for the storage of spent nuclear fuel associated with the DOE Settlement Agreement; A $44 million increase in expenses associated with Generations operating service agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc; The establishment of a $43 million liability in June 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (see further discussion in Note 17 to Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); and Costs of $14 million in 2005 associated with the Salem and Hope Creek Operating Services Agreement with PSEG, the reimbursement of which is included in other revenues. The increases in operating and maintenance expense described above were partially offset by lower payroll related expenses (a $58 million reduction), the elimination of $62 million in expenses at Boston Generating due to its sale in May 2004 and a $36 million reduction in the contractual obligation that Generation has to ComEd related to decommissioning obligations (which is included in the $38 million of decommissioning related activity in the table above). Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units of $36 million recorded in the third quarter of 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense as this asset was associated with retired nuclear units that do not have any remaining useful life. This decrease was partially offset by increased depreciation expense due to recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income for 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to a net increase in Generations reserves related to payroll taxes, sales and use taxes and other taxes other than income, partially offset by a reduction in taxes resulting from the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. 111 Table of Contents Other, Net. The decrease in other income for 2005 as compared to the prior year was primarily due to the $85 million gain ($52 million, net of taxes) on the disposal of Boston Generating recorded in May 2004, partially offset by gains of $36 million realized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 39.0% for 2005 compared to 38.1% for 2004. See Note 12 of Generations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Generation has sold or wound down substantially all components of AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe and results of AllEnergy have been presented as discontinued operations for 2005 within Generations Consolidated Statements of Income. See Notes 2 and 3 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithes and AllEnergys results of operations as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe as discontinued operations. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 14 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2003 Significant Operating Trends Exelon Exelon Corporation 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 14,133 $ 15,148 $ (1,015 ) Purchased power and fuel expense 4,929 6,194 1,265 Operating and maintenance expense 3,700 3,915 215 Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 1,295 1,115 (180 ) Operating income 3,499 2,409 1,090 Other income and deductions (922 ) (1,123 ) 201 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 2,577 1,286 1,291 Income taxes 713 389 (324 ) Income from continuing operations 1,870 892 978 Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (29 ) (99 ) 70 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,841 793 1,048 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 23 112 (89 ) Net income 1,864 905 959 Diluted earnings per share 2.78 1.38 1.40 Net Income. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 112 Table of Contents Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). Net income for 2003 reflects income of $112 million for the adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoptions of FIN 46 R, EITF 03 16 and SFAS No. 143. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased primarily due to decreased revenues at Enterprises due to the sale of InfraSource in 2003, the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and Generations adoption of EITF No. 03 11, Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and not Held for Trading Purposes as Defined in EITF Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 03 11) in the first quarter of 2004, which changed the presentation of certain power transactions and decreased 2004 operating revenues by $980 million. The adoption of EITF 03 11 had no impact on net income. Operating revenues were favorably affected by Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in 2003. Operating revenues were also favorably affected by increased volume growth and transmission revenues at ComEd and PECO collected from PJM, partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice initiatives. See further discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased primarily due to Generations adoption of EITF 03 11 during 2004 which resulted in a decrease in purchased power expense and fuel expense of $980 million. In addition, purchased power decreased due to Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in 2003, which was only partially offset by an increase in fuel expense, and the sale of Boston Generating in 2004. Purchased power represented 24% of Generations total supply in 2004 compared to 37% in 2003. Purchased power also decreased at ComEd and PECO due to unfavorable weather conditions and customer choice. See further discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. Generation recorded a $945 million charge (before income taxes) during 2003 to impair the long lived assets of Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense decreased primarily as a result of decreased expenses at InfraSource due to its sale in 2003 and decreased severance and severance related expenses, partially offset by increased expenses at Generation due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen. Operating and maintenance expense increased $65 million due to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service at ComEd, PECO and Generation, the acquisition of the remaining 50% in AmerGen in 2003 and the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units in 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense in 2004. The increase also resulted from increased amortization expense due to investments made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004 in synthetic fuel producing facilities and increased competitive transition charge amortization at PECO. These increases were partially offset by reduced depreciation and amortization expense at Enterprises due to the sale of InfraSource in 2003. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, the impairment of Boston Generatings long lived assets, operating and maintenance expense and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was primarily the result of increased taxes other than income in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due to the reduction of certain real estate tax accruals at PECO and Generation during 2003. 113 Table of Contents Other Income and Deductions. Other income and deductions in 2004 reflects interest expense of $828 million, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates of $154 million, debt retirement charges of $130 million (before income taxes) recorded at ComEd associated with an accelerated liability management plan, and an $85 million gain (before income taxes) on the 2004 sale of Boston Generating. Other income and deductions in 2003 reflects interest expense of $873 million and impairment charges of $255 million (before income taxes) related to Generations investment in Sithe. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates decreased by $187 million due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen in 2003, the deconsolidation of certain financing trusts during 2003 and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003 and the third quarter of 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 28% for 2004 compared to 30% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities made in the fourth quarter of 2003. Discontinued Operations. 2004 and 2003 discontinued operations consist of Sithes 2004 results (beginning April 1, 2004), certain qualifying components of Enterprises, and AllEnergy. AllEnergy is a business within Exelon Energy, which is a business within Generation. A discussion of the results of Sithe and AllEnergy is included in the Generation segment results discussion below. Enterprises after tax loss from discontinued operations of $78 million in 2003 and $13 million in 2004 decreased by $65 million primarily due to a 2004 gain on the sale of the Chicago operations of Thermal and a decrease in operating and maintenance expense of $401 million, partially offset by a decrease in revenues. At December 31, 2004, the remaining assets of the businesses associated with the former Enterprises segment totaled approximately $274 million in comparison to $697 million at December 31, 2003. Results of Operations by Business Segment Historically, Exelon had reported Enterprises as a segment. Exelon sold or unwound substantially all components of Enterprises in 2004 and 2003. As a result, Enterprises is no longer reported as a segment and is included within the other category within the results of operations by business segment below. Other consists of corporate operations, including Exelon Business Services Company, Enterprises and investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. The comparison of 2004 and 2003 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to Generation. Effective January 1, 2004, Enterprises competitive retail sales business, Exelon Energy Company, was transferred to Generation. The 2003 information related to the Generation segment discussed below has been adjusted to reflect the transfer of Exelon Energy Company from Enterprises to the Generation segment. Exelon Energy Companys 2003 results, excluding intercompany eliminations, were as follows: Total revenues $ 660 Intersegment revenues 4 Operating revenues and purchased power from affiliates 200 Depreciation and amortization 1 Operating expenses 648 Interest expense 1 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 6 Income taxes 3 Income from continuing operations 3 Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (21 ) Net loss (18 ) 114 Table of Contents Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ 676 $ 702 $ (26 ) PECO 455 473 (18 ) Generation 657 (238 ) 895 Other 82 (45 ) 127 Total $ 1,870 $ 892 $ 978 Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ 676 $ 702 $ (26 ) PECO 455 473 (18 ) Generation 641 (259 ) 900 Other 69 (123 ) 192 Total $ 1,841 $ 793 $ 1,048 Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance ComEd $ 676 $ 707 $ (31 ) PECO 455 473 (18 ) Generation 673 (151 ) 824 Other 60 (124 ) 184 Total $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 959 115 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ (11 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 2,588 2,501 (87 ) Operating and maintenance 897 1,093 196 Depreciation and amortization 410 386 (24 ) Taxes other than income 291 267 (24 ) Total operating expense 4,186 4,247 61 Operating income 1,617 1,567 50 Other income and deductions Interest expense (369 ) (423 ) 54 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (26 ) 26 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (19 ) (19 ) Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) (130 ) Other, net 34 49 (15 ) Total other income and deductions (484 ) (400 ) (84 ) Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,133 1,167 (34 ) Income taxes 457 465 8 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 676 702 (26 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 5 (5 ) Net Income $ 676 $ 707 $ (31 ) Net Income. ComEds net income in 2004 decreased primarily due to costs associated with ComEds accelerated retirement of long term debt, partially offset by higher operating income. The decrease in operating and maintenance expense was primarily driven by lower severances charges. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2004 compared to the 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Weather $ (113 ) Customer choice (104 ) Rate changes and mix (75 ) Volume 178 Retail revenue (114 ) PJM transmission 164 T&O charges (41 ) Other (20 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 103 Decrease in operating revenues $ (11 ) 116 Table of Contents Weather. The weather impact for the year ended December 31, 2004 was unfavorable compared to the same period in 2003 as a result of milder weather in 2004. Cooling degree days decreased 12% and heating degree days decreased 6% in the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003. Customer Choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to energy supplied by ComEd; however, as of December 31, 2004, no alternative electric supplier had approval from the ICC, and no electric utilities had chosen, to enter the ComEd residential market for the supply of electricity. 2004 2003 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 20,939 17,317 Percentage of total retail deliveries 24 % 20 % Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 22,161 20,300 Percentage of total retail customers (b ) (b ) Volume (GWhs) (a) 30,426 26,908 Percentage of total retail deliveries 35 % 31 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Rate Changes and Mix. In addition to a change in revenue from the change in rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 compared to 2003, revenue changed as a result of rate changes. Starting in the June 2003 billing cycle, the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component, decreased the collection of CTCs as compared to the respective prior year period. ComEds CTC revenues decreased by $135 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to the same period in 2003. This decrease was partially offset by increased wholesale market prices which increased energy revenue received under the ComEd PPO and by increased average rates, resulting from a change in customer usage, paid by small and large commercial and industrial customers totaling $53 million. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, ComEd collected $169 million and $304 million, respectively, of CTC revenue. Under the current restructuring statute, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Volume. ComEds electric revenues from higher delivery volume, exclusive of effects of weather and customer choice, increased due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O Charges. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. 117 Table of Contents Purchased Power Expense. The changes in ComEds purchased power expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) PJM transmission $ 164 Volume 94 PJM administrative fees 15 Customer choice (87 ) Weather (57 ) T&O charges (22 ) Prices (7 ) Other (13 ) Increase in purchased power expense $ 87 PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues and purchased power expense each increased by $164 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. See Operating Revenues above. Volume. ComEds purchased power expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. PJM administrative fees. ComEd began paying PJM administrative fees upon its full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004. Customer choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to ComEds non residential customers electing to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. Weather. ComEds purchased power expense decreased due to unfavorable weather conditions. T&O changes. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O charges for energy flowing across ComEds transmission system. Charges collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. In addition, after ComEd joined PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. See Note 3 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O charges. Prices. ComEds purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to ComEds PPAs with Generation. 118 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses $ (115 ) Charge recorded at ComEd in 2003 (a) (41 ) Payroll expense (b) (25 ) Contractors (18 ) FERC annual fees (c) (11 ) Environmental charges (10 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (9 ) Incremental storm costs (7 ) Corporate allocations (d) 43 Other (3 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (196 ) (a) In 2003, ComEd reached an agreement with various Illinois retail market participants and other interested parties. (b) Due to fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEd is no longer directly charged annual fees by the FERC. PJM pays the annual FERC fees. (d) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in ComEd comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense $ 21 Other amortization expense 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 24 ComEds increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Recoverable transition costs amortization remained constant in 2004 as compared to 2003. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase was primarily attributable to a $25 million credit in 2003 for use tax payments for periods prior to the PECO / Unicom Merger and a refund of $5 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2003 partially offset by a refund of $8 million for Illinois Electricity Distribution taxes in 2004. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense was primarily due to scheduled principal payments, debt retirements and prepayments, and refinancings at lower rates. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. During 2004, ComEd recorded $19 million of equity in net losses of subsidiaries as a result of ComEd deconsolidating their financing trusts. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt. In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $768 million of long term debt, of which $618 million was retired during the third quarter of 2004. During 2004, ComEd 119 Table of Contents recorded a charge of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of this charge included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Other, net. The change in other, net primarily results from the reversal of a $12 million reserve for potential plant disallowance in 2003 as a result of an agreement with various Illinois retail market participants and other interested parties, a reduction of AFDUC equity of $5 million during 2004 as a result of lower construction work in process balances and a $5 million decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC (formerly Unicom Investments, Inc.) as a result of a lower principal balance, which were partially offset by various other items. Income Taxes. ComEds effective income tax rate was 40.3% for 2004 and 39.8% 2003. See Note 10 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail ComEds electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 26,463 26,206 257 1.0 % Small commercial & industrial 21,662 23,334 (1,672 ) (7.2 %) Large commercial & industrial 6,913 6,955 (42 ) (0.6 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 1,893 2,297 (404 ) (17.6 %) Total full service 56,931 58,792 (1,861 ) (3.2 %) PPO Small commercial & industrial 4,110 3,912 198 5.1 % Large commercial & industrial 5,377 5,677 (300 ) (5.3 %) 9,487 9,589 (102 ) (1.1 %) Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 6,305 5,210 1,095 21.0 % Large commercial & industrial 14,634 12,110 2,524 20.8 % 20,939 17,320 3,619 20.9 % Total PPO and delivery only 30,426 26,909 3,517 13.1 % Total retail deliveries 87,357 85,701 1,656 1.9 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 120 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,295 $ 2,272 $ 23 1.0 % Small commercial & industrial 1,649 1,720 (71 ) (4.1 %) Large commercial & industrial 380 413 (33 ) (8.0 %) Public authorities & electric railroads 126 153 (27 ) (17.6 %) Total full service 4,450 4,558 (108 ) (2.4 %) PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 274 256 18 7.0 % Large commercial & industrial 304 312 (8 ) (2.6 %) 578 568 10 1.8 % Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 128 132 (4 ) (3.0 %) Large commercial & industrial 204 216 (12 ) (5.6 %) 332 348 (16 ) (4.6 %) Total PPO and delivery only 910 916 (6 ) (0.7 %) Total electric retail revenues 5,360 5,474 (114 ) (2.1 %) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 443 340 103 30.3 % Total operating revenues $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ (11 ) (0.2 %) (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from alternative electric suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. 121 Table of Contents Results of Operations PECO 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 4,487 $ 4,388 $ 99 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel expense 2,172 2,096 (76 ) Operating and maintenance 547 576 29 Depreciation and amortization 518 487 (31 ) Taxes other than income 236 173 (63 ) Total operating expense 3,473 3,332 (141 ) Operating income 1,014 1,056 (42 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (303 ) (324 ) 21 Distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (8 ) 8 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (25 ) (25 ) Other, net 18 2 16 Total other income and deductions (310 ) (330 ) 20 Income before income taxes 704 726 (22 ) Income taxes 249 253 4 Net income 455 473 (18 ) Preferred stock dividends 3 5 2 Net income on common stock $ 452 $ 468 $ (16 ) Net Income. PECOs net income in 2004 decreased primarily due to higher taxes other than income, due primarily to the reduction of real estate tax accruals in 2003, and higher depreciation and amortization expense due to increased CTC amortization, partially offset by higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense and lower operating and maintenance expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2004 compared to the 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Volume $ 148 $ 3 $ 151 Rate changes and mix 1 111 112 Weather (63 ) (21 ) (84 ) Customer choice (78 ) (78 ) Retail revenue 8 93 101 PJM transmission (15 ) (15 ) Other 3 10 13 Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues (12 ) 10 (2 ) Increase (decrease) in operating revenues $ (4 ) $ 103 $ 99 Volume. PECOs electric revenues increased as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. 122 Table of Contents Rate changes and mix. Electric revenues increased $1 million at PECO as a result of a $20 million increase related to a scheduled phase out of merger related rate reductions, offset by a $19 million decrease reflecting a change in rate mix due to changes in monthly usage patterns in all customer classes during 2004 as compared to 2003. PECOs gas revenues increased due to increases in rates through PUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2003, June 1, 2003, December 1, 2003 and March 1, 2004. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet for 2004 was 33% higher than the rate in 2003. PECOs purchased gas cost rates were reduced effective December 1, 2004. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were negatively affected by unfavorable weather conditions at PECO in 2004 compared 2003. In the PECO service territory, cooling and heating degree days were relatively unchanged and 5% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. For 2004 and 2003, 12% and 9%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by an alternative electric supplier. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. This choice generally does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. Also, operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2004 2003 Retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative electric supplier: Number of customers at period end 101,500 312,600 Percentage of total retail customers 7 % 20 % Volume (GWhs) 4,605 3,135 Percentage of total retail deliveries 12 % 9 % The increase in energy provided by alternative electric suppliers was due to the assignment of residential customers to alternative electric suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PAPUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. The decrease in the number of customers served by alternative electric suppliers at year end 2004 was due to these residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Volume $ 69 $ (2 ) $ 67 PJM transmission (15 ) (15 ) Prices 18 111 129 Customer choice (78 ) (78 ) Weather (27 ) (15 ) (42 ) Other 15 15 Increase (decrease) in purchased power and fuel expense $ (33 ) $ 109 $ 76 123 Table of Contents Volume. PECOs purchased power and fuel expense increased due to increases, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, in the number of customers and average usage per customer, generally across all customer classes. Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPAs with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. An increase in customer switching resulted in a reduction of purchased power expense, primarily due to PECOs residential customers selecting or being assigned to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. Weather. PECOs purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to unfavorable weather conditions. Other. PECOs fuel expense increased primarily due to increased off system sales of gas. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses $ (17 ) Automated meter reading system implementation costs at PECO in 2003 (16 ) Storm costs (a) (14 ) Payroll expense (b) (11 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (4 ) Corporate allocations (c) 34 Other (1 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (29 ) (a) Storm costs were significantly higher in 2003 primarily as a result of Hurricane Isabel. (b) PECO had fewer employees in 2004 compared to 2003. (c) Higher corporate allocations primarily result from centralization of information technology, supply, human resources, communications, and finance functions into BSC from all of the Exelon operating companies, and changes in the corporate governance allocation calculation. Corporate governance allocations increased overall as a result of higher centralized costs distributed out of BSC, the sale of the Enterprises companies resulting in PECO comprising a greater base percentage of Exelon, and an SEC mandated change to the methodology used to allocate Exelons corporate governance costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization $ 31 Depreciation expense 1 Other amortization expense (1 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 31 PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with PECOs original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income in 2004 was primarily attributable to a $58 million reduction of real estate tax accruals during 2003 and $12 million related to 124 Table of Contents the reversal of a use tax accrual in 2003 resulting from an audit settlement, partially offset by $4 million of lower payroll taxes in 2004. Interest Expense and Distributions on Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities. The aggregate of interest expense and distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities decreased primarily due to lower outstanding debt and refinancings at lower rates, partially offset by a reversal in 2003 of accrued interest expense on Federal income taxes of $8 million to reflect actual interest paid. Effective December 31, 2003, with the adoption of FIN 46 R, PECO deconsolidated its financing trusts (see Note 1 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). PECO no longer records distributions on mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiaries but records interest expense to affiliates related to PECOs obligations to the financing trusts. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. During 2004, PECO recorded $25 million of equity in net losses of subsidiaries as a result of deconsolidating its financing trusts. Other, Net. The increase was primarily attributable to a reversal in 2003 of accrued interest on Federal income taxes of $14 million to reflect actual interest received and gains on disposition of assets in 2004. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 35.4% for 2004 compared to 34.8% for 2003. See Note 8 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 10,349 11,358 (1,009 ) (8.9 %) Small commercial & industrial 6,728 6,624 104 1.6 % Large commercial & industrial 14,908 14,739 169 1.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 914 897 17 1.9 % Total full service 32,899 33,618 (719 ) (2.1 %) Delivery only (b) Residential 2,158 900 1,258 139.8 % Small commercial & industrial 1,687 1,455 232 15.9 % Large commercial & industrial 760 780 (20 ) (2.6 %) Total delivery only 4,605 3,135 1,470 46.9 % Total retail deliveries 37,504 36,753 751 2.0 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from an alternative electric supplier. 125 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,317 $ 1,444 $ (127 ) (8.8 %) Small commercial & industrial 756 753 3 0.4 % Large commercial & industrial 1,113 1,090 23 2.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 80 80 Total full service 3,266 3,367 (101 ) (3.0 %) Delivery only (b) Residential 164 65 99 152.3 % Small commercial & industrial 86 75 11 14.7 % Large commercial & industrial 20 21 (1 ) (4.8 %) Total delivery only 270 161 109 67.7 % Total electric retail revenues 3,536 3,528 8 0.2 % Miscellaneous revenue (c) 203 215 (12 ) (5.6 %) Total electric and other revenue $ 3,739 $ 3,743 $ (4 ) (0.1 %) (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from an alternative electric supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECO Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,949 61,858 (1,909 ) (3.1 %) Transportation 27,148 26,404 744 2.8 % Total 87,097 88,262 (1,165 ) (1.3 %) Revenue 2004 2003 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 702 $ 609 $ 93 15.3 % Transportation 18 18 Resales and other 28 18 10 55.6 % Total gas revenue $ 748 $ 645 $ 103 16.0 % 126 Table of Contents Results of Operations Generation 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 7,703 $ 8,586 $ (883 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 2,307 3,620 1,313 Fuel 1,704 1,930 226 Operating and maintenance 2,201 1,874 (327 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 286 200 (86 ) Taxes other than income 166 120 (46 ) Total operating expenses 6,664 8,689 2,025 Operating income (loss) 1,039 (103 ) 1,142 Other income and deductions Interest expense (103 ) (88 ) (15 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) 49 (63 ) Other, net 130 (268 ) 398 Total other income and deductions 13 (307 ) 320 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,052 (410 ) 1,462 Income taxes 401 (176 ) (577 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 651 (234 ) 885 Minority interest 6 (4 ) 10 Income (loss) from continuing operations 657 (238 ) 895 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (45 ) (35 ) (10 ) Income taxes (29 ) (14 ) 15 Loss from discontinued operations (16 ) (21 ) 5 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 641 (259 ) 900 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 32 108 (76 ) Net income (loss) $ 673 $ (151 ) $ 824 Net Income (Loss). Generations net income in 2004 increased from 2003 due to a number of factors. The increase in Generations 2004 net income was driven primarily by charges incurred in 2003 for the impairment of the long lived assets of Boston Generating of $945 million (before income taxes) and the impairment and other transaction related charges of $280 million (before income taxes) related to Generations investment in Sithe. Also, 2004 results were favorably affected by the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen and an increase in revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, primarily due to the decrease in average realized costs resulting from the increased success in the hedging program of fuel costs in 2004. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles recorded in 2004 included a benefit of $32 million, net of income taxes, related to the adoption of FIN 46 R and in 2003 included income of $108 million, net of income taxes related to the of adoption of SFAS No. 143. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these effects. 127 Table of Contents Operating Revenues. Operating revenues decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily as a result of the adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in revenues of $980 million in 2004 as compared with the prior year. Generations sales in 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Revenues (in millions) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,749 $ 3,831 $ (82 ) (2.1%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,227 4,107 (880 ) (21.4%) Total energy sales revenues 6,976 7,938 (962 ) (12.1%) Retail gas sales 448 414 34 8.2% Trading portfolio 1 (1 ) (100.0%) Other revenue (a) 279 233 46 19.7% Total revenues $ 7,703 $ 8,586 $ (883 ) (10.3%) Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 110,465 112,688 (2,223 ) (2.0%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 92,134 112,816 (20,682 ) (18.3%) Total sales 202,599 225,504 (22,905 ) (10.2%) (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements and fossil fuel sales. Trading volumes of 24,001 GWhs and 32,584 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2004, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric Sales to Affiliates. Sales to ComEd and PECO declined $82 million in 2004 as compared to the prior year. The lower sales to ComEd and PECO were primarily driven by cooler than normal summer weather and lower average transfer prices in 2004 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase(decrease) Effects of EITF 03 11 adoption (a) $ (966 ) Sale of Boston Generating (370 ) Addition of AmerGen operations 189 Other operations 267 Decrease in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (880 ) (a) Does not include $14 million of EITF 03 11 reclassifications related to fuel sales that are included in other revenues. The adoption of EITF 03 11 on January 1, 2004 resulted in the netting of certain revenues and the associated purchased power and fuel expense in 2004. The sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 resulted in less revenues from this entity in 2004 compared to the prior year. The acquisition of AmerGen resulted in increased market and retail electric sales of approximately $189 million in 2004. The remaining increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily due to higher volumes sold to the market at overall higher prices. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher coal prices in the Midwest region and higher oil and gas prices in the Mid Atlantic region. 128 Table of Contents Retail Gas Sales. Retail gas sales increased $34 million as a result of higher natural gas prices in 2004. Other revenues. Other revenues include increased sales from tolling agreements, offset by a decrease in fossil fuel revenues. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply of sales in 2004 and 2003, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 136,621 117,502 16.3% Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 48,968 83,692 (41.5%) Fossil and hydroelectric generation (c, d) 17,010 24,310 (30.0%) Total supply 202,599 225,504 (10.2%) (a) Excludes AmerGen for 2003. AmerGen generated 20,135 GWhs during the year ended December 31, 2004. (b) Sales in 2004 do not include 25,464 GWhs that were netted with purchased power GWhs as a result of the reclassification of certain hedging activities in accordance with EITF 03 11. Includes PPAs with AmerGen, which represented 12,667 GWhs in 2003. (c) Fossil and hydroelectric supply mix changed as a result of decreased fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. (d) Excludes Sithe and Generations investment in TEG and TEP. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Generation Increase (decrease) Effects of the adoption of EITF 03 11 $ (980 ) Addition of AmerGen operations (344 ) Sale of Boston Generating (290 ) Midwest Generation (122 ) Price (13 ) Mark to market adjustments on hedging activity (14 ) Volume 267 Other (43 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (1,539 ) Adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in purchased power and fuel expense of $980 million. Addition of AmerGen Operations. As a result of Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in AmerGen in December 2003, purchased power decreased $379 million. In prior periods, Generation reported energy purchased from AmerGen as purchased power expense. The decrease in purchased power was partially offset by an increase of $35 million related to AmerGens nuclear fuel expense. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in fuel and purchased power expense for Boston Generating is due primarily to the sale of the business in May 2004. Midwest Generation. The volume of purchased power acquired from Midwest Generation declined in 2004 as a result of Generation exercising its option to reduce the capacity purchased from Midwest Generation, as announced in 2003. 129 Table of Contents Price. The decrease reflects the forward hedging of fuel at lower costs than 2003 realized costs. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities at Generation were $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to losses of $16 million for 2003. Hedging activities in 2004 relating to Boston Generating operations accounted for a gain of $4 million and hedging activities relating to other Generation operations in 2004 accounted for losses of $6 million. Volume. Generation experienced increases in purchased power and fuel expense due to increased market and retail electric sales throughout its various sales regions. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to lower transmission expense resulting from reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM. Generations average margins per megawatt hour (MWh) sold for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2004 2003 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 33.94 $ 34.00 (0.2%) Wholesale and retail electric sales 35.03 36.40 (3.8%) Total excluding the trading portfolio 34.43 35.20 (2.2%) Average electric supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (a) $ 17.60 $ 24.61 (28.5%) Average margin excluding the trading portfolio 16.83 10.59 58.9% (a) Average electric supply cost includes purchased power, and fuel costs associated with electric sales and PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. Average electric supply cost does not include purchased power and fuel cost associated with retail gas sales. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating. In connection with the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003, Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 million net of income taxes). See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Generations ownership interest in Boston Generating. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2004 compared to 2003 consisted of the following: Generation Increase(decrease) Addition of AmerGen operations $ 331 Decommissioning related costs (a) 50 Refueling outage costs (b) 50 Pension, payroll and benefit costs, primarily associated with The Exelon Way (84 ) DOE Settlement (c) (52 ) Sale of Boston Generating (12 ) Other 44 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 327 (a) Includes $40 million due to AmerGen asset retirement obligation accretion not included in 2003. (b) Includes refueling outage cost of $43 million at AmerGen not included in 2003. (c) See Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the spent nuclear fuel storage settlement agreement with the DOE. 130 Table of Contents The increase in operating and maintenance expense was primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in Generations consolidated results for 2004. Decommissioning related costs increased primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in 2004 compared to the prior year. Accretion expense includes accretion of the asset retirement obligation and adjustments to offset the earnings impacts of certain decommissioning related activities revenues earned from ComEd and PECO, income taxes and depreciation of the ARC asset to zero. The increase in operating and maintenance expense was partially offset by reductions in payroll related costs, the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 and the settlement with the DOE to reimburse Generation for costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power costs data for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Generation 2004 2003 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5% 93.4% Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.43 $ 12.53 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 47.11 $ 43.25 (a) Includes AmerGen and excludes Salem, which is operated PSEG Nuclear. (b) Includes PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. The higher nuclear capacity factor and lower nuclear production costs were primarily due to ten fewer unplanned outages which offset the impact of one additional planned refuel outage. The lower production cost in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the lower fuel costs and the impact of the spent fuel storage cost settlement agreement with the DOE which offset the added cost for one additional planned refuel outage and costs associated with the Dresden generator repairs during outages in the fourth quarter of 2004. In 2004 as compared to 2003, the Quad Cities Units intermittently operated at pre Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the immediate expensing of an ARC, totaling $49 million, recorded in 2004 for which no useful life remains. The ARC was originally recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 143, which requires the establishment of an asset to offset the impact of an increased asset retirement obligation (ARO). See Note 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the 2004 update to the ARO and ARC. The remaining increase is due to capital additions and the consolidation of AmerGen. These increase were partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense related to the Boston Generating facilities, which were sold in May 2004. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 38% for 2004 compared to 43% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to income taxes associated with nuclear decommissioning trust activity, income tax deductions related to non taxable employee benefits and the dilution of the permanent income tax benefits due to the increase in pre tax income in 2004. See Note 12 of Generations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. In 2004, the loss from discontinued operations included Sithes results from April 1, 2004 through the end of the year and the results from AllEnergy, a former subsidiary of Exelon Energy. Generation had accounted for the investment in Sithe as an unconsolidated equity method investment prior to its consolidation on March 31, 2004 pursuant to FIN 46 R. The loss from discontinued operations in 2003 included the results of AllEnergy. Sithes net impact to Generation was a loss of $19 million in 2004, while AllEnergy produced $3 million of net income in 2004. In 2003, AllEnergy had a net loss of $21 million. See Note 2 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 131 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Exelons businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. These capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. Exelons access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on Exelon and its subsidiaries credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that Exelon no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon has access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1.5 billion that it currently utilizes to support its commercial paper programs. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Exelon primarily uses its capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay common stock dividends, fund its pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. Exelon spends a significant amount of cash on construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, Exelon has historically operated with a working capital deficit. However, Exelon expects operating cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditure requirements. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake, other than the proposed merger with PSEG which will require the issuance of Exelon common stock in exchange for PSEG common stock, may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers at fixed prices and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows will be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice and future regulatory proceedings on their revenues and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory proceedings. Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs. Cash flows from operations have been a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements. Taking into account the factors noted above, Exelon also obtains cash from non operating sources such as the proceeds from the debt issuance in 2005 to fund Exelons $2 billion pension contribution (see Note 10 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in the rate regulatory environments of ComEd and PECO, although any effects are not expected to hinder the ability of PECO to fund its business requirements. Under Illinois law enacted in 1997, ComEd is required, beginning in 2007, to purchase energy in the wholesale energy markets in order to meet the retail energy needs of ComEds customers because ComEd does not own any generation. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell energy beginning in 2007 is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there may be potential material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. On January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of power by ComEd for the time period after 2006. The procurement process is similar to the process described in the Procurement Case with some modifications to enhance consumer protection. The auction will be administered by an independent auction manager, with oversight by the ICC staff. The first auction is scheduled to take place during the fall of 2006, at which time ComEds entire load will be up for bid. To mitigate the effects of changes in future prices, 132 Table of Contents the load will be staggered in three year contracts. To further mitigate the impact on its residential customers of transitioning to this process, ComEd has offered to develop a cap and deferral proposal to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers, some or all of which could require regulatory or legislative approval to implement. A cap and deferral proposal, generally speaking, would limit the procurement costs that ComEd could pass through to its customers for a specified period of time and allow ComEd to collect any unrecovered procurement costs in later years. Additionally, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the IRS, to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. As discussed in Note 12 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, this tax obligation is significant. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations: 2005 2004 Variance Net income $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,910 2,274 1,636 Income taxes 138 293 (155 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets andliabilities (b) (821 ) 237 (1,058 ) Pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments, net (2,003 ) (270 ) (1,733 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 2,147 $ 4,398 $ (2,251 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment of goodwill, investments and long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. The reduction of cash flows from operations during the current year is primarily the result of $2 billion of discretionary contributions to Exelons pension plans during the first quarter of 2005, which was initially funded through a term loan agreement, as further described in the Cash Flows from Financing Activities section below. Of the total contribution, ComEd, PECO and Generation contributed $803 million, $109 million and $844 million, respectively. ComEds and PECOs contributions were funded by capital contributions from Exelon. The Generation contribution was primarily funded by capital contributions from Exelon and included $2 million from internally generated funds. Exelon did not contribute to its pension plans in subsequent quarters of 2005. Discretionary tax deductible pension plan payments were $439 million in 2004. Exelon also contributed $11 million during 2004 to the pension plans needed to satisfy minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. Cash flows provided by operations for 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ 2,147 $ 4,398 ComEd 247 1,330 PECO 704 983 Generation 972 1,947 Excluding the March 2005 discretionary pension contributions discussed above, changes in Exelons, ComEds, PECOs and Generations cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in its results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. 133 Table of Contents In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations and the discretionary pension contributions discussed above, significant operating cash flow impacts for ComEd and Generation for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: ComEd In the third quarter of 2005, ComEd settled $325 million of interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges for a loss of $15 million which was paid in October 2005. This was recorded as a pre tax charge to net income because the underlying transaction for which these interest rate swaps were entered into is no longer probable of occurring. During 2004, ComEd paid $86 million for prepayment premiums on the retirement of debt. Generation During 2005, Generation had net disbursements of counterparty collateral of $187 million compared to $73 million of net collections of counterparty collateral in 2004. The increase in cash outflows from 2004 was primarily due to changes in collateral requirements resulting from increased activity within exchange based markets for energy and fossil fuel. During 2005, Generation had net payments of approximately $165 million primarily due to increased use of financial instruments to hedge future sales of power and future purchases of fossil fuel. During 2005, Exelon received a $102 million Federal income tax refund for capital losses generated in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. In December 2004, TXU and Generation terminated a tolling agreement and entered into a new agreement. Upon termination of the original agreement, Generation received a cash payment of $172 million. The resulting gain was deferred and will be recognized as income over the contractual term of the new agreement. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities for 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ (2,487 ) $ (1,739 ) ComEd (479 ) 486 PECO (241 ) (251 ) Generation (1,294 ) (1,103 ) Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2005 and projected amounts for 2006 are as follows: 2005 2006 ComEd $ 776 $ 925 PECO 298 333 Generation 1,067 1,115 Other (a) 24 68 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 2,165 $ 2,441 (a) Other primarily consists of corporate operations. 134 Table of Contents Projected capital expenditures and other investments for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 50% of the projected 2006 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO are for continuing projects to maintain and improve the reliability of their transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amount is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. Exelon is continuing to evaluate its total capital spending requirements. Exelon anticipates that ComEds and PECOs capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings and the issuance of debt or preferred securities or capital contributions from Exelon. Generation. Generations capital expenditures for 2005 reflect additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages) and nuclear fuel. Exelon anticipates that Generations capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Other significant investing activities for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $102 million and $56 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Exelon received cash proceeds of $76 million, net of $2 million held in escrow at December 31, 2004, from the sale of its investments in affordable housing in 2004. Cash proceeds of $227 million, net of transaction costs and contingency payments on prior year dispositions, were received during 2004 from the sales of Exelon Thermal Holdings, Inc., substantially all of the operating businesses of Services, and Enterprises investments in PECO TelCove and other equity method and cost basis investments of Enterprises. Early settlement on an acquisition note receivable from the 2003 disposition of InfraSource resulted in cash proceeds of $30 million during 2004. ComEd As a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool, $308 million and $97 million were returned to ComEd during 2005 and 2004, respectively. PECO During 2005, $26 million was returned to PECO as a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool and during 2004, $34 million was contributed by PECO. Generation During 2005, Generation received approximately $52 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to the retired units. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Specifically, subsidiaries of Generation closed on the acquisition of Reservoir Capital Groups 50% interest in Sithe for cash payments of $97 million and the sale of 100% of Sithe to Dynegy, for net cash proceeds of $103 million. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Sithe. 135 Table of Contents On March 31, 2004, Generation consolidated the assets and liabilities of Sithe under the provisions of FIN 46 R, which resulted in an increase in cash of $19 million. See Notes 1 and Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the FIN 46 R consolidation of Sithe. Generation received cash proceeds of $42 million from the January 2004 sale of three gas turbines. During 2004, Generation used $29 million of restricted cash related to Sithes operating activities and used $11 million of restricted cash to support the operations of Boston Generating and provided $4 million for certain environmental obligations. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ (19 ) $ (2,627 ) ComEd 240 (1,820 ) PECO (500 ) (676 ) Generation 93 (739 ) On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement. The loan proceeds were used to fund discretionary contributions of $2 billion to Exelons pension plans, including contributions of $803 million, $109 million and $842 million by ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. To facilitate the contributions by ComEd, PECO and Generation, Exelon contributed the corresponding amounts to the capital of each company. On April 1, 2005, Exelon entered into a $500 million term loan agreement that was subsequently fully borrowed to reduce this $2 billion term loan. During the second quarter of 2005, $200 million of this $500 million term loan, as well as the remaining $1.5 billion balance on the $2 billion term loan described above, were repaid with the net proceeds received from the issuance of the long term senior notes discussed below. The $300 million outstanding balance under the term loan agreement bears interest at a variable rate determined, at Exelons option, by either the Base Rate or the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the term loan agreement). On November 30, 2005, the term loan was amended and restated to extend the agreement from December 1, 2005 to September 16, 2006. See Note 10 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. On June 9, 2005, Exelon issued and sold $1.7 billion of senior debt securities pursuant to its senior debt indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, consisting of $400 million of 4.45% senior notes due 2010, $800 million of 4.90% senior notes due 2015 and $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2035. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay the $1.5 billion in remaining principal due on the $2 billion term loan agreement and $200 million of the $500 million term loan agreement referenced above. Exelon may redeem some or all of the notes at any time prior to maturity at a specified redemption price. The notes are unsecured and rank equally with the other senior unsecured indebtedness of Exelon. Additionally, Exelon settled interest rate swaps for a net payment of $38 million and paid approximately $12 million of fees in connection with the debt offering. In 2005, ComEd used funding received from $324 million of commercial paper to retire long term debt. In 2004, ComEd retired $1.2 billion of long term debt, including $1.0 billion prior to its maturity and $206 million at maturity in accordance with an accelerated liability management plan and retired $728 million of long term debt due to financing affiliates. Additionally, in 2004, Generation paid $27 million of 136 Table of Contents a note payable to Sithe. During 2004, Exelon also issued $164 million of commercial paper, net of payments, and received cash proceeds of $33 million from the settlement of interest rate swaps. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2005 and 2004 by registrant were as follows: 2005 2004 Exelon $ (1,070 ) $ (831 ) ComEd (498 ) (457 ) PECO (473 ) (394 ) Generation (857 ) (662 ) On January 24, 2006, Exelons board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.40 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2006 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2006. The dividend is payable on June 10, 2006, to shareholders of record at the end of the day on May 15, 2006, provided the Merger with PSEG with has not closed. See ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for additional information. The declaration and payment of dividends by ComEd is a matter for determination by the board of directors of ComEd. The ComEd board of directors, at a meeting held in December 2005, determined that the board would consider the dividend policy of ComEd at a subsequent meeting. The ComEd board has not discussed dividend policy in depth or taken action to establish or revise ComEds dividend policy. If and to the extent that future dividends from ComEd are less than the level of dividends determined in accordance with past practices at ComEd, Exelon expects that distributions from Generation would be increased. Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $222 million and $240 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, Exelon purchased treasury shares totaling $362 million and $82 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Intercompany Money Pool. ComEds net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool increased $140 million during 2005. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool decreased $191 million and $162 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper by Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation. At December 31, 2005, Exelon, along with ComEd, PECO and Generation, participated with a group of banks in a $1 billion unsecured revolving facility maturing on July 16, 2009 and a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on October 31, 2006. Both revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and to issue letters of credit. 137 Table of Contents At December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation had the following sublimits and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower BankSublimit (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon $ 100 $ 100 $ ComEd 650 623 459 PECO 350 350 220 Generation 400 353 311 (a) Sublimits under the credit agreements can change upon written notification to the bank group. (b) Available capacity represents the bank sublimit net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit facilities. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. The maximum LIBOR adder is 170 basis points. The average interest rates on commercial paper in 2005 for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were approximately 3.28%, 4.13%, 3.44% and 4.12%, respectively. The credit agreements require Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and, in the case of Exelon and Generation, revenues from Sithe and interest on the debt of its project subsidiaries. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2005: Exelon ComEd PECO Generation Credit agreement threshold 2.65 to 1 2.25 to 1 2.25 to 1 3.25 to 1 At December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. On February 10 through 13, 2006, Generation entered into separate additional credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $875 million, which may be drawn down in the form of loans and or letters of credit. The additional credit facilities are for a term of 364 days and contain the same terms as the revolving credit facilities described above. The credit facilities will be used primarily to meet short term funding requirements and to issue letters of credit. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2005, the capital structures of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated ComEd PECO (a) Generation Long term debt 35 % 25 % 19 % 29 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 20 12 50 Common equity 39 57 26 Members equity 64 Preferred securities 1 Notes payable 6 6 4 7 Minority interest 138 Table of Contents (a) As of December 31, 2005, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.2 billion receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table, but is excluded from the percentages in this footnote), consisted of 38% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 3% notes payable and 58% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. (b) Includes $4.5 billion, $1.3 billion and $3.2 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property and CTCs of ComEd and PECO or mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the money pool is subject to authorization by the corporate treasurer. ComEd, PECO, Generation and BSC may participate in the money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon and UII, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, may participate as lenders. Funding of, and borrowings from, the money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the money pool by participant during 2005 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2005: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2005Contributed (Borrowed) ComEd $ 517 $ 200 $ (140 ) PECO 210 20 8 Generation 54 540 (92 ) BSC 30 156 (16 ) UII, LLC 3 Exelon 242 241 Sithe Long Term Debt Debt totaling approximately $820 million was eliminated from the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as a result of the sale of Sithe on January 31, 2005. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the sale of Sithe. Security Ratings Exelons, ComEds, PECOs and Generations access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2005: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa2 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior secured debt Baa1 (a) A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 Transition bonds (c) Aaa AAA AAA Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 139 Table of Contents (a) Downgraded by Moodys Investor Service from A3 to Baa1 on December 15, 2005. (b) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (c) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On September 30, 2005, Moodys Investors Service placed ComEds ratings under review for a possible downgrade due to the adverse regulatory environment in Illinois as described in Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On December 15, 2005, Moodys Investor Service downgraded the long term debt and preferred stock ratings of ComEd. ComEds short term rating for commercial paper was not downgraded. All of ComEds ratings remain on review for possible downgrade. The ratings outlook for Exelon, Generation and PECO were unchanged. On October 3, 2005, Standard & Poors Rating Services (S&P) lowered its corporate credit ratings and senior unsecured debt ratings on Exelon and its subsidiaries due to the adverse regulatory environment in Illinois as described in Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The short term debt ratings and senior secured ratings were unaffected. The ratings on all Exelon affiliates remain on CreditWatch with negative implications pending the completion of the merger with PSEG. On January 9, 2006, Fitch Ratings revised the rating outlook on the long term debt and preferred stock of ComEd to negative from stable. The rating outlooks on all other Exelon affiliates remain stable. None of Exelons borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under Exelons credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit its counterparties and Generation to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Shelf Registrations As of December 31, 2005, Exelon, ComEd and PECO had current shelf registration statements for the sale of $300 million, $555 million and $550 million, respectively, of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of Exelon, ComEd or PECO to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Restrictions The issuance of long term debt or equity securities by ComEd requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their financing needs or in connection with a specific financing. 140 Table of Contents Under PUHCA, the SEC had financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations and Exelons financings. As a result of the repeal of PUHCA, effective February 8, 2006, the SECs financing jurisdiction under PUHCA for ComEds and PECOs short term financings and Generations financings reverted to FERC and Exelons financings are no longer subject to regulatory approvals. On February 7, 2006, FERC issued a blanket authorization for the acquisition of securities pursuant to the Exelon Utility Money Pool Agreement, subject to the same limits and reporting requirements imposed by the SEC under PUHCA. The FERC order is effective for one year instead of the usual two year effective period. The one year period will allow Exelon to maintain the status quo while FERC determines whether on rehearing to amend its rules to make future applications unnecessary (e.g., blanket authorizations for all money pool transactions). Because PSE&G was not an applicant requesting participation in the Exelon Utility Money Pool, the FERC denied Exelons request to allow PSE&G to participate in the Exelon Utility Money Pool post merger. On December 7, 2005, ComEd and PECO filed applications for short term financing authority with the FERC in the amounts of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. In February 2006, ComEd and PECO received orders from the FERC approving their requests, effective February 8, 2006 through December 31, 2007. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in November 2000 that became effective again with the repeal of PUHCA. If the FERC proceeding relating to Generations market based rate authority results in revocation of that authority, Generations blanket financing authority may also be revoked. If that financing authority is revoked, it is possible that the revocation of financing authority would be effective prospectively. It is also possible that the revocation of financing authority might be retroactive to October 2, 2005. FERC has adopted regulations that would grandfather prior SEC approvals of financings at a companys election. The FERC regulations require that companies intending to issue securities in reliance on their SEC financing orders file with FERC a copy of their SEC financing order within 30 days after the effective date of PUHCA repeal. In light of the potential uncertainty relating to the possible revocation of FERCs blanket financing authority, Exelon has filed its SEC financing order with the FERC. The SEC financing order contains certain terms, limits, and reporting requirements which Exelon continues to review to determine the extent to which it would be subject to such conditions. Under applicable law, ComEd, PECO and Generation can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at ComEd, PECO or Generation may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. At December 31, 2005, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.2 billion, including ComEds retained deficit of $(81) million consisting of $1,099 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends offset by an unappropriated retained deficit of ($1,180) million, PECOs retained earnings of $649 million and Generations undistributed earnings of $1,002 million. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries, has investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45k (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45k contains a provision under which credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. 141 Table of Contents The following table (in dollars) provides the estimated phase out range for 2006 and 2007 based on the per barrel price of oil. The table also contains the annual average New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. index (NYMEX) future prices per barrel at December 31, 2005 for 2006 and 2007. Estimated2006 Estimated2007 Beginning of Phase Out Range (a) $ 59 $ 61 End of Phase Out Range (a) 75 76 Annual Average NYMEX Future Price 65 66 (a) Estimated phase out ranges are calculated using inflation rates published by the IRS after year end. The inflation rate used by Exelon to estimate the 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges was 2%. Based on the 2006 and 2007 NYMEX futures prices at December 31, 2005, Exelon estimates there will be a phase out of tax credits of 38% and 36% in 2006 and 2007, respectively. This would decrease Exelons net income as compared to 2005 by as much as $38 million and $36 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. These estimates can change significantly due to the volatility in oil prices. The purchase price for Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities is comprised of fixed and variable components. The fixed component is in the form of a non recourse note that requires nonrefundable quarterly payments of principal and interest to sellers. The variable component is based on the value of the estimated tax credits that will be allocated to Exelon. Exelons subsidiaries are also required to make capital contributions based on the allocated amount of tax credits to the operators to fund the operating losses. Given the refundable nature of the variable components of the purchase price and operating losses paid to the sellers and operators of the facilities, respectively, Exelons results of operations and cash flows are not anticipated to be affected by a phase out of tax credits due to a rise in crude oil prices to the extent of these variable components (notwithstanding the differences in the timing of refundable variable payments and the associated refunds). However, Exelons results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected to the extent that Exelon is not allocated enough tax credits to cover the principal and interest payments due on the non recourse notes representing the non refundable fixed component of the purchase price. Absent any efforts to mitigate market price exposure, a phase out could result in the reduction of the non operating net income generated by the investments and could result in an estimated after tax non operating loss of up to $70 million per year in the event all tax credits are completely eliminated, exclusive of any impacts related to the intangible assets. In 2005, Exelon and Generation entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of this exposure. These derivatives could result in after tax cash proceeds to Exelon of up to $42 million and $42 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively, in the event the tax credits are completely phased out. See Note 12 of Exelons Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. 142 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2011 and beyond 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 8,140 $ 405 $ 1,125 $ 669 $ 5,941 Long term debt to financing trusts 4,508 507 1,950 1,506 545 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 4,199 697 767 691 2,044 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,588 267 399 173 749 Capital leases 46 2 4 4 36 Operating leases 766 55 108 92 511 Purchase power obligations 8,800 2,124 1,672 1,258 3,746 Fuel purchase agreements 4,299 754 1,235 933 1,377 Other purchase obligations (b) 987 211 283 275 218 Chicago agreement (c) 42 6 12 12 12 Regulatory commitments 10 10 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 906 906 Obligation to minority shareholders 46 3 5 5 33 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 11 11 Asset retirement obligations (d) 4,157 66 13 12 4,066 Total contractual obligations $ 38,505 $ 5,118 $ 7,573 $ 5,630 $ 20,184 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2005. The contributions will be funded in part by additional debt anticipated to be issued in 2005. Estimated future payments associated with the anticipated debt issuance have not been included in the table above. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (d) Represents the present value of Generations obligation to decommission nuclear plants and ComEds, PECOs and Generations conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. AROs associated with assets that have been fully depreciated but which are still in service have been reflected as payments due in 2006. 143 Table of Contents ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2011 and beyond Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 2,839 $ 328 $ 564 $ 230 $ 1,717 Long term debt to financing trusts 1,348 307 680 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,488 420 238 207 623 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 731 75 95 52 509 Operating leases 153 16 37 30 70 Other purchase commitments (b) 22 14 8 Chicago agreement (c) 42 6 12 12 12 Regulatory commitments 10 10 Asset retirement obligations (d) 151 62 12 11 66 Total contractual obligations $ 6,784 $ 1,238 $ 1,646 $ 542 $ 3,358 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (d) Represents conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. AROs associated with assets that have been fully depreciated but which are still in service have been reflected as payments due in 2006. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2011 and beyond (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 1,184 $ $ 450 $ 30 $ 704 Long term debt to financing trusts 3,159 199 1,270 1,506 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 361 52 93 72 144 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 857 192 304 121 240 Operating leases 8 3 2 2 1 Other purchase commitments (b) 220 37 46 46 91 Asset retirement obligations (c) 20 4 1 1 14 Total contractual obligations $ 5,809 $ 487 $ 2,166 $ 1,778 $ 1,378 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) Represents conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. AROs associated with assets that have been fully depreciated but which are still in service have been reflected as payments due in 2006. 144 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment Due within Due 2011 and beyond (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Long term debt $ 1,805 $ 12 $ 24 $ 13 $ 1,756 Intercompany money pool 92 92 Interest obligations related to long term debt (a) 854 94 185 184 391 Capital leases 46 2 4 4 36 Operating leases 534 31 59 53 391 Purchase power obligations 8,800 2,124 1,672 1,258 3,746 Fuel purchase agreements 4,299 754 1,235 933 1,377 Other purchase commitments (b) 688 112 219 230 127 Obligation to minority shareholders 46 3 5 5 33 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 11 11 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 906 906 Asset retirement obligations (c) 3,986 3,986 Total contractual obligations $ 22,067 $ 3,235 $ 3,403 $ 2,680 $ 12,749 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2005 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2005. (b) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (c) Represents the present value of Generations obligation to decommission nuclear plants and conditional AROs recorded in connection with the adoption of FIN 47. For additional information about: regulatory commitments, see Note 4 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. commercial paper, see Note 10 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 11 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the spent nuclear fuel and decommissioning obligations, see Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the contribution required to Exelons pension plans to satisfy ERISA minimum funding requirements, see Note 15 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments and fuel purchase agreements, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the obligation to minority shareholders, see Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. asset retirement obligations, see Notes 13 and 14 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics 145 Table of Contents financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $14 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon as of December 31, 2005 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permits ComEd, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 143, Generation was required to re measure its decommissioning liabilities at fair value and recorded an asset retirement obligation of $2.4 billion on January 1, 2003. Increases in the asset retirement obligation to decommission nuclear generating facilities resulting from the passage of time are recorded as operating and maintenance expense. Increases in the asset retirement obligation resulting from a remeasurement are recorded with a corresponding ARC, which is a component of property, plant and equipment. At December 31, 2005, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets related to its nuclear fueled generating facilities was approximately $4 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Based on current licenses and anticipated renewals, decommissioning expenditures for plants in operation are currently estimated to begin after 2029. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held approximately $5.6 billion of investments in trust funds, including net unrealized gains and losses, at December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Exelons commercial commitments as of December 31, 2005. Refund Claims ComEd and PECO have several pending tax refund claims seeking acceleration of certain tax deductions and additional tax credits. ComEd and PECO are unable to estimate the ultimate outcome of these refund claims and will account for any amounts received in the period the matters are settled with the IRS and state taxing authorities. ComEd and PECO had entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of these refund claims with the IRS. ComEd and PECO previously made refundable prepayments to the tax consultants of $11 million and $5 million, respectively. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome of the claims and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS if any. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. A portion of ComEds tax benefits, including any associated interest for periods prior to the merger among PECO, Unicom Corporation (Unicom), the former parent company of ComEd, and Exelon (PECO / Unicom Merger) would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill pursuant to a reallocation of the PECO / Unicom Merger purchase price. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. 146 Table of Contents In 2004, the IRS granted preliminary approval for one of ComEds refund claims and final approval was obtained in the first quarter of 2005. The refund and associated interest have been recorded in the financial statements. Approximately $14 million of tax and interest benefit received in the second quarter of 2005 has been reflected in the financial statements of which $12 million ($9 million after tax) was recorded to goodwill under the provisions of EITF Issue 93 7, Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination. As a result, ComEd recorded consulting expenses of $5 million (pre tax) in 2004. Based on negotiations with the IRS during the first half of 2005, PECO believed it would receive a tax refund related to one of its claims and recorded a $6 million (pre tax) charge related to expected consulting fees during the first quarter of 2005. However, as the result of a recent unfavorable tax court decision involving another utility related to a similar type of refund claim, PECO no longer believes payment of the consulting fees is probable and reversed the $6 million (pre tax) charge during the third quarter 2005. PECO is unable to predict the final impact of its future negotiations with the IRS on this matter. Variable Interest Entities Sithe. As of December 31, 2004, Generation was a 50% owner of Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Generation consolidated Sithe within its financial statements as of March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. See Note 3 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of Generations entire interest in Sithe that was completed on January 31, 2005. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Trust IV in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding, LLC, ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, PECO Trust III and PETT were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Amounts of $1.3 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005. See Other Subsidiaries of ComEd and PECO with Publicly Held Securities in Part I, ITEM 1 for further discussion of the nature, purpose and history of Exelons involvement with these financing trusts. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable until November 2010 based on the November 2005 amendment to this agreement. At December 31, 2005, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $195 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, (SFAS No. 140) and a $30 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a long term note payable and 147 Table of Contents reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as long term debt due within one year. At December 31, 2004, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $179 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, and a $46 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a long term note payable and reflected on the consolidated balance sheets as long term debt due within one year. PECO must continue to service these receivables and must maintain the level of the accounts receivable at $225 million. If PECO fails to maintain that level, the cash that would otherwise be received by PECO under this program must be held in escrow until the level is met. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposit. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the American Nuclear Insurers Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 20 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of Exelons Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 148 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Exelon is exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of derivative activity and risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the derivative and risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, ComEd and Generation) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation is primarily exposed to commodity price risk with ComEd having modest exposure due to the need to purchase ancillary services and the commodity price risk in relation to the CTC revenues collected from customers. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and they are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case those changes are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being cash flow hedged is three years. Generation has an estimated 88% hedge ratio in 2006 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. Absent any efforts to mitigate market price exposure, the estimated market price exposure for Generations unhedged non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price 149 Table of Contents of electricity is approximately a $61 million decrease in net income. This sensitivity assumes an 88% hedge ratio and that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA, as amended, with ComEd under which Generation has agreed to supply all of ComEds load obligations through 2006. At times, ComEds load obligations are greater than the capacity of Generations owned generating units in the ComEd region. As such, Generation procures power through purchase power and lease agreements and has contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. In 2004, Generation retained 3,858 MWs of capacity under the terms of three then existing PPAs with Midwest Generation, LLC (Midwest Generation). Generations contract to purchase power from Midwest Generation expired at the end of 2004. As a result, Generations exposure to market price movements in the ComEd region in 2005 increased compared to 2004 due in part to the expiration of the Midwest Generation contract. Consequently, after 2004, Generation must procure the necessary power for ComEd through market purchases and other means to the extent not provided by Generations own generating facilities. Following the expiration of the Illinois transition period and end of PPA between Generation and ComEd in 2006, all of Generations supply in the ComEd region will be available for sale into the wholesale markets and exposed to changes in market prices. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation began to use financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes in 2001. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted in a gain of $17 million (before income taxes), which represented a net unrealized mark to market gain of $15 million and realized gain of $2 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $90,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for year ended December 31, 2005 of $4,564 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities at Generation is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officer (CCRO). 150 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2005. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2004 $ (216 ) Total change in fair value during 2004 of contracts recorded in earnings 158 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (197 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 475 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (512 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market 147 Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2004 (a) (145 ) Total change in fair value during 2005 of contracts recorded in earnings 108 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (105 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 583 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (879 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (102 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ (540 ) (a) Includes a $39 million liability related to Sithe and the related mark to market expense which were reclassified to discontinued operations. The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2005 and 2004: December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Current assets $ 916 $ 403 Noncurrent assets 286 373 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,202 776 Current liabilities (1,282 ) (598 ) Noncurrent liabilities (460 ) (323 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (1,742 ) (921 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities $ (540 ) $ (145 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available varies by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2005 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts it holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 151 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net liabilities, provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, this table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets/liabilities, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 andBeyond Total Fair Value Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ 3 Prices provided by other external sources (388 ) (134 ) (2 ) (524 ) Total $ (386 ) $ (133 ) $ (2 ) $ $ $ $ (521 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ 85 $ (57 ) $ 5 $ $ $ $ 33 Prices provided by other external sources (43 ) 25 (5 ) (23 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods (24 ) (5 ) (29 ) Total $ 18 $ (37 ) $ $ $ $ $ (19 ) (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2005. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate andOther Hedges Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2004 $ (133 ) $ (16 ) $ (149 ) Changes in fair value (312 ) 17 (295 ) Disposal of existing Boston Generating contracts 16 16 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 290 290 Exelon Energy Company opening balance 2 2 Sithe Energies, Inc. opening balance (10 ) (10 ) Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2004 (137 ) (9 ) (146 ) Changes in fair value (533 ) 5 (528 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income 356 356 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2005 $ (314 ) $ (4 ) $ (318 ) 152 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to revenue collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier or the ComEd PPO. Revenues collected from customers electing the PPO include commodity charges at market based prices and CTC revenues which are calculated to provide the customer with a credit for the market price for electricity. Because the change in revenues from customers electing the PPO is significantly offset by the change in CTC revenues, ComEd does not believe that its exposure to such a market price decrease would be material. ComEds CTC revenues are also collected from customers who elect to purchase energy from an alternative electric supplier. ComEds CTC rates are reset once a year in the spring, and customers can elect to lock in their CTC rates for a one or multiple year terms. ComEd anticipates that CTC revenues will range from $35 million to $50 million in 2006. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. ComEd also has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to ancillary services that are purchased from PJM. These services are not provided for in the current PPA between Generation and ComEd. Credit Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. For the year ended December 31, 2005, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3.5% of its electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 7.6% of its retail electric and gas revenues. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. Under the Competition Act, licensed entities, including alternative electric suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Generation Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits and letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. They further delineate that exposure by the credit rating of the 153 Table of Contents counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through ISOs which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2005 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 472 $ 53 $ 419 2 $ 147 Non investment grade 60 11 49 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 41 41 Internally rated non investment grade 38 38 Total $ 611 $ 64 $ 547 2 $ 147 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Rating as of December 31, 2004 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 151 $ 33 $ 118 $ Non investment grade 98 20 78 1 63 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 13 13 Internally rated non investment grade 3 3 Total $ 265 $ 53 $ 212 1 $ 63 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2005 (a) Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 472 $ $ $ 472 Non investment grade 56 4 60 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 38 3 41 Internally rated non investment grade 17 14 7 38 Total $ 583 $ 21 $ 7 $ 611 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is 154 Table of Contents possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets that are administered by ISOs: PJM, ISO New England, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the ISOs. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by the ISOs, the ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets included a $507 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2005. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1,492 million, less unearned income of $985 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation) Variable Rate Debt. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. As of December 31, 2005, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $3 million, $1 million and $2 million decrease in Exelons, ComEds and Generations, respectively, pre tax earnings. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a decrease in pre tax earnings of less than $1 million at PECO. Fair Value Hedges. At December 31, 2005, ComEd had interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million. At December 31, 2005, these interest rate swaps had an aggregate fair market value of $(1) million based on the present value difference between the contract and market rates at December 31, 2005. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount ComEd would pay the counterparties. On January 17, 2006, ComEd settled these swaps and paid $1 million. The aggregate fair value of ComEds interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in the spot yield at December 31, 155 Table of Contents 2005 is estimated to be a favorable impact to ComEd of $5 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount counterparties would pay ComEd. The aggregate fair value of ComEds interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges that would have resulted from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in the spot yield at December 31, 2005 is estimated to be a favorable impact to the counterparties of $7 million. If these derivative instruments had been terminated at December 31, 2005, this estimated fair value represents the amount ComEd would pay the counterparties. Cash Flow Hedges. During 2005, ComEd entered into five forward starting interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $325 million to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of a future financing. At the time of the swap trades, the debt issuance that these swaps were hedging was considered probable; therefore, ComEd accounted for these interest rate swap transactions as cash flow hedges. However, in September 2005, the future financing was postponed indefinitely and consequently, ComEd unwound the $325 million forward starting interest rate swaps and paid the counterparties approximately $15 million. As a result, Exelon and ComEd recognized a pre tax loss of $15 million which was included in other, net within the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, during 2005, Exelon settled interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $1.5 billion and recorded pre tax losses of $39 million which will be recorded as additional interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Generation maintains trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2005, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $391 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Welfare Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 156 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2005 compared 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2004 compared to 2003 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where ComEd no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, ComEd has access to a revolving credit facility that ComEd currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 265 Table of Contents Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of ComEds Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Mark Risk Exelon. 266 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2004 compared to 2003 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 311 Table of Contents Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of PECOs Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 312 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2004 Generation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 Operating expenses Purchased power 2,569 2,307 (262 ) Fuel 1,913 1,704 (209 ) Operating and maintenance 2,288 2,201 (87 ) Depreciation and amortization 254 286 32 Taxes other than income 170 166 (4 ) Total operating expenses 7,194 6,664 (530 ) Operating income 1,852 1,039 813 Other income and deductions Interest expense (128 ) (103 ) (25 ) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates (1 ) (14 ) 13 Other, net 95 130 (35 ) Total other income and deductions (34 ) 13 (47 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,818 1,052 766 Income taxes 709 401 (308 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 1,109 651 458 Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 1,109 657 452 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (45 ) 45 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 24 24 Income taxes 5 (29 ) (34 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (16 ) 35 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,128 641 487 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (30 ) 32 (62 ) Net income $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. 351 Table of Contents Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2003 Generation 2004 2003 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 7,703 $ 8,135 $ (432 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 2,307 3,587 1,280 Fuel 1,704 1,533 (171 ) Operating and maintenance 2,201 1,866 (335 ) Impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets 945 945 Depreciation and amortization 286 199 (87 ) Taxes other than income 166 120 (46 ) Total operating expenses 6,664 8,250 1,586 Operating income (loss) 1,039 (115 ) 1,154 Other income and deductions Interest expense (103 ) (88 ) (15 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) 49 (63 ) Other, net 130 (262 ) 392 Total other income and deductions 13 (301 ) 314 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,052 (416 ) 1,468 Income taxes 401 (179 ) (580 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 651 (237 ) 888 Minority interest 6 (4 ) 10 Income (loss) from continuing operations 657 (241 ) 898 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (45 ) (45 ) Income taxes (29 ) 29 Loss from discontinued operations (16 ) (16 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 641 (241 ) 882 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 32 108 (76 ) Net income (loss) $ 673 $ (133 ) $ 806 352 Table of Contents Operating Revenues Operating revenues decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily as a result of the adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a net decrease in revenues of $980 million in 2004 as compared with the prior year. Generations sales in 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Revenue (in millions) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 3,749 $ 4,036 $ (287 ) (7.1% ) Wholesale and retail electric sales (b) 3,227 3,861 (634 ) (16.4% ) Total energy sales revenue 6,976 7,897 (921 ) (11.7% ) Retail gas sales 448 448 n.m. Trading portfolio 1 (1 ) (100.0% ) Other revenue (c) 279 237 42 17.7% Total revenue $ 7,703 $ 8,135 $ (432 ) (5.3% ) Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 Variance % Change Sales to affiliates (a) 110,465 117,405 (6,940 ) (5.9% ) Wholesale and retail electric sales (b) 92,134 107,267 (15,133 ) (14.1% ) Total sales 202,599 224,672 (22,073 ) (9.8% ) (a) Includes sales to Exelon Energy Company during 2003. As of January 1, 2004, Exelon Energy Company became part of Generation and is presented as retail electric sales. (b) Includes retail electric sales of Exelon Energy Company in 2004. (c) Includes sales related to tolling agreements and fossil fuel sales. Trading volumes of 24,001 GWhs and 32,584 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are not included in the table above. The decrease in trading volume is a result of reduced volumetric and VAR trading limits in 2004, which are set by the Exelon Risk Management Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Electric Sales to Affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates decreased primarily as a result of the transfer of Exelon Energy Company to Generation effective January 1, 2004. Sales to Exelon Energy Company are no longer reported as affiliate revenue by Generation. Revenue from sales to Exelon Energy Company for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $209 million. Sales to Energy Delivery declined $76 million in 2004 as compared to the prior year, which further contributed to the decrease in sales to affiliates. The lower sales to Energy Delivery were primarily driven by cooler than normal summer weather and lower average transfer prices in 2004 as compared to the prior year. Wholesale and Retail Electric Sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003, consisted of the following: Variance Effects of EITF 03 11 adoption (a) $ (966 ) Sale of Boston Generating (370 ) Addition of Exelon Energy Company and AmerGen operations 424 Other operations 278 Decrease in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (634 ) (a) Does not include $14 million of EITF 03 11 reclassifications related to fuel sales that are included in other revenues. 353 Table of Contents As previously described, the adoption of EITF 03 11 on January 1, 2004 resulted in the netting of certain revenues and the associated purchased power and fuel expense in 2004. The sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 resulted in less revenue from this entity in 2004 compared to the prior year. The acquisition of Exelon Energy and AmerGen resulted in increased market and retail electric sales of approximately $424 million compared to the prior year. The remaining increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily due to higher volumes sold to the market at overall higher prices. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher coal prices in the Midwest region and higher oil and gas prices in the Mid Atlantic region. Retail Gas Sales. Retail gas sales increased $448 million as a result of the transfer of Exelon Energy Company to Generation as of January 1, 2004. Other. The remaining increase in other revenue includes increased sales from tolling agreements offset by a decrease in fossil fuel revenue. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense Generations supply of sales in 2004 and 2003, excluding the trading portfolio, was as follows: Supply of Sales (in GWhs) 2004 2003 % Change Nuclear generation (a) 136,621 117,502 16.3 % Purchases non trading portfolio (b) 48,968 82,860 (40.9 %) Fossil and hydroelectric generation (c, d) 17,010 24,310 (30.0 %) Total supply 202,599 224,672 (9.8 %) (a) Excludes AmerGen for 2003. AmerGen generated 20,135 GWhs during the year ended December 31, 2004. (b) Sales in 2004 do not include 25,464 GWhs that were netted with purchased power GWhs as a result of the reclassification of certain hedging activities in accordance with EITF 03 11. Includes PPAs with AmerGen, which represented 12,667 GWhs in 2003. (c) Fossil and hydroelectric supply mix changed as a result of decreased fossil fuel generation due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. (d) Excludes Sithe and Generations investment in TEG and TEP. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003 consisted of the following: Variance Effects of the adoption of EITF 03 11 $ (980 ) Sale of Boston Generating (290 ) Midwest Generation (122 ) Mark to market adjustments on hedging activity (14 ) Price (13 ) Volume 267 Addition of AmerGen and Exelon Energy Company 124 Other (81 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (1,109 ) Adoption of EITF 03 11. The adoption of EITF 03 11 resulted in a decrease in purchased power and fuel expense of $980 million. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in fuel and purchased power expense for Boston Generating is due primarily to the sale of the business in May 2004. 354 Table of Contents Midwest Generation. The volume of purchased power acquired from Midwest Generation declined in 2004 as a result of Generation exercising its option to reduce the capacity purchased from Midwest Generation, as announced in 2003. Hedging Activity. Mark to market losses on hedging activities at Generation were $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to losses of $16 million for 2003. Hedging activities in 2004 relating to Boston Generating operations accounted for a gain of $4 million and hedging activities relating to other Generation operations in 2004 accounted for a loss of $6 million. Price. The decrease reflects the forward hedging of fuel at lower costs than 2003 realized costs. Volume. Generation experienced increases in purchased power and fuel expense due to increased market and retail electric sales throughout its various sales regions. Addition of AmerGen and Exelon Energy Company. Due to the transfer of Exelon Energy Company to Generation effective January 1, 2004, fuel expense increased $468 million as fuel purchases made by Exelon Energy Company did not previously affect Generations results. As a result of Generations acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in AmerGen in December 2003, purchased power decreased $379 million in 2004. In prior periods, Generation reported energy purchased from AmerGen as purchased power expense. The decrease in purchase power from the acquisition of the remaining 50% of AmerGen was partially offset by an increase of $35 million in AmerGens nuclear fuel expense. Other. Other decreases in purchased power and fuel expense were primarily due to lower transmission expense resulting from reduced inter region transmission charges, primarily associated with ComEds integration into PJM. Generations average margins per MWh sold for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: ($/MWh) 2004 2003 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 33.94 $ 34.38 (1.3 %) Wholesale and retail electric sales (b) 35.03 35.99 (2.7 %) Total excluding the trading portfolio 34.43 35.15 (2.0 %) Average electric supply cost excluding the trading portfolio (c) $ 17.60 $ 22.79 (22.8 %) Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 16.83 $ 12.36 36.2 % (a) Includes sales to Exelon Energy Company during 2003. As of January 1, 2004, Exelon Energy Company became part of Generation and is presented as retail sales. (b) Includes retail electric sales of Exelon Energy Company in 2004. (c) Average electric supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales and PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. Average electric supply cost does not include purchased power and fuel cost associated with retail gas sales. 355 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003 consisted of the following: Variance Addition of AmerGen and Exelon Energy Company $ 345 Refueling outage costs (a) 50 Decommissioning related costs (b) 50 Pension, payroll and benefit costs, primarily associated with The Exelon Way (84 ) DOE Settlement (c) (52 ) Sale of Boston Generating (12 ) Other 38 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 335 (a) Includes refueling outage expense of $43 million at AmerGen not included in 2003. (b) Includes $40 million due to AmerGen asset retirement obligation accretion not included in 2003. (c) See Note 13 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions of the spent nuclear fuel storage settlement agreement with the DOE. The increase in operating and maintenance expense is primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen and Exelon Energy Company in Generations consolidated results for 2004. Decommissioning related costs increased primarily due to the inclusion of AmerGen in 2004 compared to the prior year. Accretion expense includes accretion of the asset retirement obligation and adjustments to offset the earnings impacts of certain decommissioning related activities, including revenues earned from ComEd and PECO, income taxes and depreciation of the asset retirement cost asset (ARC) to zero. The increase in operating and maintenance expense was partially offset with reductions in payroll related costs due to the implementation of the programs associated with The Exelon Way, the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004 and the settlement with the DOE to reimburse Generation for costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power costs data for the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: 2004 2003 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5% 93.4% Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 12.43 $ 12.53 Average purchased power cost for wholesale operations per MWh (b) $ 47.11 $ 43.29 (a) Includes AmerGen and excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. (b) Includes PPAs with AmerGen in 2003. The higher nuclear capacity factor is primarily due to ten fewer unplanned outages which offset the impact of one additional planned refuel outage. The lower production cost in 2004 as compared to 2003 is primarily due to lower fuel costs and the impact of the spent fuel storage cost settlement agreement with the DOE which offset the added cost for one additional planned refuel outage and costs associated with the Dresden generator repairs during outages in the fourth quarter of 2004. In 2004 as compared to 2003, the Quad Cities Units intermittently operated at pre Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. Impairment of the Long Lived Assets of Boston Generating In connection with the decision to transition out of the ownership of Boston Generating during the third quarter of 2003, Generation recorded a long lived asset impairment charge of $945 million ($573 356 Table of Contents million net of income taxes). See Note 2 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Generations ownership interest in Boston Generating. Depreciation and Amortization The increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the immediate expensing of an asset retirement cost (ARC), totaling $49 million, recorded in 2004 for which no useful life remains. The ARC was originally recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 143, which requires the establishment of an asset to offset the impact of an increased asset retirement obligation (ARO). See Note 13 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the 2004 update to the ARO and ARC. The remaining increase was due to capital additions and the consolidation of AmerGen and Exelon Energy. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense related to the Boston Generating facilities, which were sold in May 2004. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes other than income increased in 2004 compared to 2003 due primarily to $26 million of additional payroll and property taxes incurred from the consolidation of AmerGen and Exelon Energy. The remaining increase primarily resulted from a $15 million reduction to reserves recorded in 2003 for exposures associated with property taxes. Interest Expense The increase in interest expense in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily related to additional expense incurred from the purchase of British Energys interest in AmerGen and the issuance of $500 million of Senior Notes in December 2003. The increase was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense of $12 million related to the Boston Generating project debt being deconsolidated in May 2004. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates The decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2004 as compared to 2003 was due to a $47 million decrease resulting from Generations consolidation of AmerGen in 2004 following the purchase of British Energys 50% interest in AmerGen in December 2003 and the consolidation of Sithe in 2004. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2004 represents equity earnings from TEG and TEP following the transfer of ownership in Sithe International in the fourth quarter of 2004, and prior to the transfer, relates to earnings recorded at Sithe for Sithes 49.5% interests in TEG and TEP. 357 Table of Contents Other, Net The components of other, net for 2004 as compared to 2003 are as follows: Other, Net 2004 2003 Variance Gain on sale of Boston Generating (a) $ 85 $ $ 85 Decommissioning related activities: Decommissioning trust fund income (b) 194 79 115 Decommissioning trust fund income AmerGen (b) 43 43 Other than temporary impairment of decommissioning trust funds (c) (268 ) (268 ) Contractual offset to decommissioning related activities (d) 66 (79 ) 145 Gain on sale of assets 6 6 Impairment of investment in Sithe (255 ) 255 Other 4 (7 ) 11 Total $ 130 $ (262 ) $ 392 (a) See Note 2 of Generations Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations sale of Boston Generating. (b) Includes investment income and realized gains/(losses). (c) Includes other than temporary impairments totaling $255 million, $5 million and $8 million on nuclear decommissioning trust funds for the former ComEd, former PECO and AmerGen units respectively. (d) Includes the elimination of non operating decommissioning related activity for those units that are subject to contractual accounting, including the elimination of decommissioning trust fund income and other than temporary impairments for certain nuclear units. See Notes 13 and 15 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the contractual accounting applied for certain nuclear units. The increase in other, net in 2004 as compared to 2003 was primarily due to the $85 million gain ($52 million, net of taxes) on the sale of Boston Generating recorded in 2004, a $255 million impairment charge in 2003 related to Generations equity investment in Sithe Energies, Inc. and a $25 million loss resulting from the purchase and subsequent sale of 50% of the assets of Sithe to Reservoir (see Note 3 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) in 2003. The remaining increase was primarily due to a $35 million increase in decommissioning trust fund investment income primarily related to AmerGen. Effective Income Tax Rate The effective income tax rate was 38% for 2004 compared to 43% for 2003. The decrease in the effective rate was primarily attributable to income taxes associated with nuclear decommissioning trust fund activity, income tax deductions related to non taxable employee benefits and the dilution of the permanent income tax benefits due to the increase in pre tax income in 2004. Discontinued Operations The loss from discontinued operations includes the results of operations of Sithe from April 1, 2004 through the end of the year and the results from AllEnergy, a former subsidiary of Exelon Energy. Sithes net impact to Generation was a loss of $19 million in 2004, while AllEnergy produced $3 million of net income in 2004. (See Note 21 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On March 31, 2004, Generation adopted FIN 46 R, resulting in a benefit of $32 million (net of income taxes of $22 million). On January 1, 2003, Generation adopted SFAS No. 143 resulting in a benefit of $108 million (net of income taxes of $70 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from 358 Table of Contents operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility that Generation currently utilizes to support is commercial paper program. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of Generations Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Mark Risk Exelon. 359 Table of Contents 
 
