ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Generation and Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of nuclear decommissioning. Zion, a two unit nuclear generation station, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Dresden Unit 1 have ceased power generation. SNF at Zion and Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in on site storage pools and dry cask storage, respectively, until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All of Peach Bottom Unit 1s SNF has been moved off site. The present value of Generations liability to decommission Zion, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Dresden Unit 1 was $795 million at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, nuclear decommissioning trust funds set aside to pay for this obligation were $1.2 billion. Fossil and Hydroelectric Facilities Generation operates various fossil and hydroelectric facilities and maintains ownership interests in several other facilities such as LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2006 and 2005, approximately 8% of Generations electric supply was generated from Generations owned fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generations electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by FERC. The Muddy Run and Conowingo facilities have licenses that expire in September 2014. Generation is in the process of performing pre application analyses and anticipates filing a Notice of Intent to renew the licenses in 2009 pursuant to FERC regulations. For those plants located within PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) or the New England control area administered by ISO New England Inc. (ISO NE), notice is required before a plant can be retired. Insurance. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. 9 Table of Contents Long Term Contracts In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the long term contracts described below: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MWs) Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2011 1,108 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP Franklin, Georgia 2030 925 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Green Country Energy, LLC Jenks, Oklahoma 2022 795 Elwood Energy, LLC Elwood, Illinois 2012 772 Lincoln Generating Facility, LLC Manhattan, Illinois 2011 664 Reliant Energy Aurora, LP Aurora, Illinois 2008 600 Others (a) Various 2008 to 2023 1,997 Total 7,691 (a) Includes long term capacity contracts with seven counterparties. Federal Power Act The Federal Power Act gives FERC exclusive rate making jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, all public utilities subject to FERCs jurisdiction are required to file rate schedules with FERC with respect to wholesale sales and transmission of electricity. Open Access Transmission tariffs established under FERC regulation give Generation access to transmission lines that enable it to participate in competitive wholesale markets. Because Generation sells power in the wholesale markets, Generation is a public utility for purposes of the Federal Power Act and is required to obtain FERCs acceptance of the rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. In 2000, Generation received authorization from FERC to sell power at market based rates. As is customary with market based rate schedules, FERC reserved the right to suspend market based rate authority on a retroactive basis if it subsequently determined that Generation or any of its affiliates violated the terms and conditions of its tariff or the Federal Power Act. FERC is also authorized to order refunds if it finds that the market based rates are not just and reasonable under the Federal Power Act. In 2004, FERC implemented new market power tests for suppliers to qualify to sell power at market based rates. These tests consist of the market share test and the pivotal supplier test, both of which must be passed by Generation, or market power mitigation must be imposed for Generation to continue to make sales of capacity and energy in the wholesale market at market based rates. FERC allows the relevant geographic market to include a regional transmission organizations (RTOs) footprint, and Generation used an expanded PJM footprint as the relevant market. On July 5, 2005, FERC approved Generations continued authority to charge market based rates for wholesale sales of electricity, including to its affiliates ComEd and PECO. In the same order, FERC required Generation to address the affiliate abuse and reciprocal dealing prong of FERCs market based rate eligibility test, instituting a proceeding under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act, and pending a compliance filing by Generation. On April 3, 2006, FERC accepted Exelons compliance filings regarding its triennial update of market based rates and terminated proceedings under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act. For further discussion of this matter, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 10 Table of Contents For a number of years, FERC has been encouraging the voluntary formation of RTOs, such as PJM, to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. The intended benefits of establishing these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market monitoring and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service across several transmission systems. See Transmission Services below for a further discussion. To date, PJM, the Midwest Independent System Operator, Inc. (MISO), ISO NE and Southwest Power Pool, have been approved as RTOs. Because of some states opposition to imposition of centralized energy and capacity markets, FERC is seeking to obtain some of the benefits of RTOs by means of making more effective rules governing open access transmission in regions that do not have RTOs or independent system operators. FERC issued a final rule establishing standardized generator interconnection policies and procedures. Under this interconnection policy generators will benefit from not having to deal on a case by case basis with different and sometimes inconsistent requirements of various transmission providers. The Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act, which was signed into law on August 8, 2005, implements several significant changes intended to improve electric reliability, promote investment in the transmission infrastructure, streamline electric regulation, improve wholesale competition, address problems identified in the western energy crisis and Enron collapse, promote fuel diversity and cleaner fuel sources, and promote greater efficiency in electric generation, delivery and use. The Energy Policy Act, through amendment of the Federal Power Act, also transferred to FERC certain additional authority. FERC was granted new authority to review the acquisition or merger of generating facilities, along with the responsibility to address more explicitly cross subsidization issues in these situations. Additionally, FERC now has the authority to approve siting of electric transmission facilities located in national interest electric transmission corridors if states cannot or will not act in a timely manner to approve siting. The Energy Policy Act also creates a self regulating electric reliability organization with FERC oversight to enforce reliability rules. On July 20, 2006, pursuant to the Energy Policy Act, FERC certified the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) as the nations Electric Reliability Organization. As a result, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, will be subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and its impact on the Registrants. Market Based Rates Matters Currently, Exelons entities have been approved by FERC to sell power at market based rates. On May 19, 2006, FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Rule Making (NOPR) on Market Based Rates for Wholesale Sales of Electric Energy, Capacity and Ancillary Services by Public Utilities, which would modify the tests that Exelon and other market participants must satisfy to be entitled to sell at market based rates. Exelon currently expects that FERC will rule on the NOPR in the first or second quarter of 2007 and Exelon is not certain as to the impact of any new rules that are promulgated as a result of FERCs future ruling with respect to the NOPR. Also, triggered by the expiration of the full requirements PPA between Generation and ComEd and the resulting increase in Generations uncommitted capacity, on December 15, 2006, Exelon made a Change in Status (CIS) filing with 11 Table of Contents FERC. Exelons filing, supported by an updated market power analysis, demonstrated that Exelon continues to be entitled to market based rates. The time period for interventions expired on January 5, 2007, no party intervened, and on February 9, 2007, FERC accepted Exelons CIS filing. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Market Based Rates Matters and its impact on the Registrants. PJM Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) On August 31, 2005, PJM filed its RPM with FERC to replace its current capacity market rules. The RPM proposal provided for a forward capacity auction using a demand curve and locational deliverability zones for capacity phased in over a several year period beginning on June 1, 2006. On November 5, 2005, PJM proposed to delay the effective date of the RPM until June 1, 2007. On April 20, 2006, FERC issued an order generally finding aspects of PJMs RPM filing to be just and reasonable, but FERC also established further procedures to resolve the remaining issues and encouraged the parties to seek a negotiated resolution. A final settlement was filed with FERC on September 29, 2006 and FERC issued its order approving the settlement, subject to conditions, on December 22, 2006. FERCs adoption of the settlement proposal of September 2006 is expected to have a favorable impact for owners of generation facilities, and particularly for such facilities located in constrained zones. The final revenue impact of the settlement on Generation, particularly over an extended time period, however cannot be estimated at this time. FERC has also denied requests for rehearing of its April 20, 2006 order. The time for filing a petition for review of FERCs April 2006 order will expire on February 20, 2007. In addition, FERCs order approving the settlement subject to conditions is subject to requests for rehearing and judicial review. PJM will almost certainly implement RPM in 2007 notwithstanding, as FERCs orders are rarely stayed, and therefore almost always remain in effect, pending appellate review. The first auction, which is scheduled to occur in April 2007, will allow Generation to better estimate the revenue impact for the period June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2008. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in gigawatthours (GWhs) for 2006 and estimated for 2007: Source of Electric Supply 2006 2007 (Est.) Nuclear units (a) 139,610 139,752 Purchases non trading portfolio 38,297 29,766 Fossil and hydroelectric units 12,773 15,285 Total supply 190,680 184,803 (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its obligations to ComEd and PECO, some of Generations retail business requirements, and for sales to other utilities. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate 12 Table of Contents requirements through 2009. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2010. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2010. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2008. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units. Generation obtains approximately 30% of its uranium enrichment services from European suppliers. There is an ongoing trade action by USEC, Inc. alleging dumping in the United States against European enrichment services suppliers. In January 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission determined that USEC, Inc. was materially injured or threatened with material injury by low enriched uranium exported by European suppliers. The U.S. Department of Commerce has assessed countervailing and anti dumping duties against the European suppliers. Both USEC, Inc. and the European suppliers have appealed these decisions. Generation is uncertain at this time as to the outcome of the pending appeals; however, as a result of these actions, Generation may incur higher costs for uranium enrichment services necessary for the production of nuclear fuel. Coal is obtained for coal fired plants primarily through annual contracts with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. Natural gas requirements for operating stations are procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or natural gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding derivative financial instruments. Power Team Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity, and long term, intermediate term and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Generation has also purchased transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs. Power Team also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being economically hedged is approximately three years. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 13 Table of Contents 2007 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEd and PECO. A portion of Generations hedge may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk management group and Exelons Risk Management Committee (RMC) monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Power Team also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Power Teams efforts. At December 31, 2006, Generations long term commitments relating to the purchase and sale of energy, capacity and transmission rights from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power OnlySales Power Only Purchasesfrom Non Affiliates Transmission RightsPurchases (b) 2007 $ 468 $ 5,401 $ 1,499 $ 6 2008 425 1,900 475 2009 398 647 194 2010 417 100 194 2011 417 106 Thereafter 2,960 249 Total $ 5,085 $ 8,048 $ 2,717 $ 6 (a) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2006. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are conditional on plant availability. (b) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments in 2007 for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. In connection with the 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation entered into a PPA, as amended, with ComEd under which Generation agreed to supply all of ComEds load requirements through 2006. Under the ComEd PPA, prices for energy varied depending upon the time of day and month of delivery. Beginning January 2007, ComEd is procuring all of its supply from market sources pursuant to the ICC approved procurement auction, which includes 35% from Generation. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on the impact of ComEds procurement process on Generation. Generation has a PPA with PECO under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with substantially all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources. Subsequent to 2010, PECO expects to procure all of its electricity from market sources, which could include Generation. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2007 are as follows: (in millions) Production plant $ 754 Nuclear fuel 599 Total $ 1,353 14 Table of Contents ComEd and PECO Exelons regulated energy delivery operations consist of ComEd and PECO. ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial, industrial and wholesale customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is subject to extensive regulation by the ICC as to rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEds operations. ComEd is also subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEds business. ComEds retail service territory has an area of approximately 11,300 square miles and an estimated population of eight million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of three million. ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers. ComEds franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEds franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2007 to 2061. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration. PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to residential, commercial and industrial customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to residential, commercial and industrial customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is subject to extensive regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECOs operations. PECO is also subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECOs business. PECOs retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 3.8 million. PECO provides electric delivery service in an area of approximately 2,000 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.7 million, including 1.5 million in the City of Philadelphia. Natural gas service is supplied in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.3 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 480,000 customers. PECO has the necessary authorizations to furnish regulated electric and gas service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECOs authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and or grandfathered rights. These rights are generally unlimited as to time and are generally exclusive from competition from other electric and gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECOs gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another gas utility but PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat. ComEds and PECOs kWh sales and load of electricity are generally higher during the summer periods and winter periods, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEds highest peak load occurred on August 1, 2006 and was 23,613 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on February 5, 2007 and was 16,207 MWs. PECOs highest peak load occurred on August 3, 2006 and was 8,932 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MWs. 15 Table of Contents PECOs gas sales are generally higher during the winter periods when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECOs highest daily gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 million cubic feet (mmcf). Retail Electric Services Electric utility restructuring legislation was adopted in Pennsylvania in December 1996 and in Illinois in December 1997. Both Illinois and Pennsylvania permit competition by competitive electric generation suppliers for the supply of retail electricity while transmission and distribution service remains regulated. The legislation and related regulatory orders in both states allowed customers to choose a competitive electric generation supplier; required rate reductions and imposed freezes or caps on rates during a transition period following the adoption of the legislation; and allowed the collection of competitive transition charges (CTCs) from customers to recover a portion of the costs that might not otherwise be recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) during the transition period. Under Illinois and Pennsylvania legislation, ComEd and PECO are required to provide generation services to customers, except for certain large customers of ComEd, who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to the utility after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. These requirements are referred to as provider of last resort (POLR) obligations. ComEd. As more fully described below, ComEds transition period has ended and new unbundled rates for service became effective January 2007. All of ComEds customers are eligible to choose a competitive electric generation supplier, and most non residential customers also have a power purchase option (PPO) that is based on market based rates. As of December 31, 2006, one competitive electric generation supplier had been granted approval by the ICC to serve residential customers in Illinois; however, it is not currently supplying electricity to any of ComEds residential customers. All of ComEds customers are eligible to choose a competitive electric generation supplier or may purchase electricity from ComEd at rates, including the PPO option, that are based on a reverse auction process. At December 31, 2006, approximately 20,300 non residential customers, representing approximately 28% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier or had chosen the PPO. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier and customers who have elected the PPO continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Illinois Procurement Case and Initial ComEd Auction. On January 24, 2006, the ICC, by a unanimous vote, approved a reverse auction competitive bidding process for procurement of electricity by ComEd after the end of the transition period. This approval, currently under appeal before the Illinois Appellate Court, should provide ComEd with stability and greater certainty that it will be able to procure energy through the auction process and pass through the costs of that energy to ComEds customers through a transparent market mechanism. The first procurement auction for ComEds entire load took place during September 2006, for electricity to be delivered beginning in January 2007. Auction participants bid on several different products including 17 , 29 and 41 month contracts that will be blended together and used to serve residential and small commercial customers, a 17 month annual product that will be used to serve larger non residential customers, and a variably priced hourly product that would be used to serve customers who either select hourly service or are not eligible to receive fixed price service. The ICC accepted the auction results related to the blended and annual products but rejected the auction results for the hourly product. Under ComEds tariffs, electricity that would have been procured through the hourly auction is currently being purchased in the PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Rate Freeze Extension Proposal. In 2006 and 2007, various bills, amendments and compromise legislation were separately passed by the Illinois House and the Illinois Senate in a legislative session 16 Table of Contents that ended on January 9, 2007, including, in the Illinois House, an extension of the Illinois transition period rate freeze with a rollback of rates to 2006 levels. However in order to take effect, any legislation would need to be passed by both the Illinois House and Illinois Senate and be signed by the Governor of Illinois. The legislative session ended on January 9, 2007 without any legislation having passed both the Illinois House and the Illinois Senate. All legislation pending at the close of the legislative session on January 9, 2007 expired. A new session is underway and legislation similar to previously proposed legislation has been reintroduced. ComEd is unable to predict the final disposition of any legislation that may be presented during 2007 to rollback rates, change the end of the mandated transition and rate freeze period in Illinois, or otherwise. ComEd believes a rate rollback and freeze, if enacted into law, would have serious detrimental effects on Illinois, ComEd and consumers of electricity. ComEd believes such legislation, if enacted into law, will violate Federal law and the U.S. Constitution, and ComEd is prepared to vigorously challenge any such legislation in court. If legislation similar to the compromise bill previously passed by the Illinois Senate to phase in the rate increases is enacted, there would be material adverse effects on Exelons and ComEds results of operations and cash flows as the compromise bill did not provide for the recovery of carrying charges. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Illinois Rate Case. On August 31, 2005, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC to comprehensively review its tariff and to adjust ComEds rates for delivering electricity effective January 2007 (Rate Case). On July 26, 2006, the ICC issued its order in the Rate Case which approved a delivery services revenue increase of approximately $8 million of the $317 million proposed revenue increase requested by ComEd. The ICC subsequently granted in part requests for rehearing of ComEd and various other parties. On December 20, 2006, the ICC issued an order on rehearing that increased the amount previously approved by approximately $74 million, including a partial return on the pension asset, for a total rate increase of $83 million. ComEd and various other parties have appealed the rate order to the courts. It is unlikely the appeal will be resolved until the second half of 2007 at the earliest. In the event the order is ultimately changed, the changes should be prospective only. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Residential Rate Stabilization Program. To mitigate the impact on its residential customers of ComEds transition to a reverse auction competitive bidding process for the procurement of electricity, the ICC approved a program, proposed by ComEd, which offers residential customers the choice to elect to defer electric rate increases greater than 10% in each of the years from 2007 to 2009. ComEd will recover the deferred balances over three years from 2010 to 2012. Deferred balances will be assessed an annual carrying charge of 3.25%. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Original Cost Audit. In the Rate Case, the ICC, ordered an original cost audit of ComEds distribution assets. The original cost audit report is expected to be finalized in 2007 with an ICC proceeding to follow the issuance of the report. This proceeding may extend into 2008. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Other. Illinois law provides that an electric utility, such as ComEd, will be liable for actual damages suffered by customers in the event of a continuous electricity outage of four hours or more affecting 30,000 or more customers and provides for reimbursement of governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with any such outage. Recovery of consequential damages is barred and the affected utility may seek relief from these provisions from the ICC when the utility can show that the cause of the outage was unpreventable due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering or third party causes. During the years 2006, 2005 and 2004, ComEd did not have any outages that triggered the reimbursement requirement. PECO. Under the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act), all of PECOs retail electric customers have the right to choose their generation suppliers. At December 31, 2006, less than 1% of each of PECOs residential and large commercial 17 Table of Contents and industrial loads and 10% of its small commercial and industrial load were purchasing generation service from competitive electric generation suppliers. Customers who purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to PECO. In addition to retail competition for generation services, PECOs 1998 settlement of its restructuring case mandated by the Competition Act established caps on generation, transmission and distribution rates. The 1998 settlement also authorized PECO to recover $5.3 billion of stranded costs and to securitize up to $4.0 billion of its stranded cost recovery, which was subsequently increased to $5.0 billion. Under the 1998 settlement, PECOs distribution and transmission rates were capped through June 30, 2005 at the level in effect on December 31, 1996. Generation rates, consisting of the charge for stranded cost recovery and a shopping credit or capacity and energy charge, were capped through December 31, 2010. For 2006, the generation rate cap was $0.0751 per kWh, increasing to $0.0801 per kWh in 2007. The rate caps are subject to limited exceptions, including significant increases in Federal or state taxes or other significant changes in law or regulations that would not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return. Under the settlement agreement entered into by PECO in 2000 relating to the PAPUCs approval of the merger between PECO, Unicom Corporation (Unicom), the former parent company of ComEd, and Exelon (PECO/Unicom Merger), PECO agreed to $200 million in aggregate rate reductions for all customers over the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005 and extended the rate cap on distribution and transmission rates through December 31, 2006. PECOs capped transmission and distribution rates continue in effect until PECO files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. There are no current proceedings to do so. As a mechanism for utilities to recover allowed stranded costs, the Competition Act provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable transition charges on customers bills. Transition charges are assessed to and collected from all retail customers who have been assigned stranded cost responsibility and access the utilitys transmission and distribution systems. As the transition charges are based on access to the utilitys transmission and distribution system, they are assessed regardless of whether the customer purchases electricity from the utility or a competitive electric generation supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that the utilitys right to collect transition charges is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs were awarded, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. As mentioned above, PECO has been authorized by the PAPUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. At December 31, 2006, the unamortized balance of PECOs stranded costs, or CTC regulatory asset, was $3.0 billion. The following table shows PECOs allowed recovery of stranded costs, and amortization of the associated regulatory asset, for the years 2007 through 2010 as authorized by the PAPUC based on the level of transition charges established in the settlement of PECOs restructuring case and the projected annual retail sales in PECOs service territory. Recovery of transition charges for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. To the extent the actual recoveries of transition charges in any one year differ from the authorized amount set forth below, an annual reconciliation adjustment to the transition charge rates is made to increase or decrease the subsequent years collections accordingly, except during 2010, in which the reconciling adjustments are made quarterly or monthly as needed. Year (in millions) Estimated CTC Revenue Estimated Stranded Cost Amortization 2007 $ 910 $ 619 2008 917 697 2009 924 783 2010 932 883 18 Table of Contents PECO has a PPA with Generation under which PECO obtains substantially all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues earned from customers as specified by PECOs 1998 settlement of its restructuring case mandated by the Competition Act. Subsequent to 2010, PECO expects to procure all of its supply from market sources, which could include Generation. Regulations applicable to all Pennsylvania electric utilities POLR obligations are being developed by the PAPUC. PECO and Generation will continue to monitor the developments of these regulations. In November 2004, Pennsylvania adopted Act 213, the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act of 2004. For more information, see Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards below. Transmission Services ComEd and PECO provide wholesale and unbundled retail transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERCs open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. Under FERCs Order No. 889, ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERCs Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the communication of non public information between the transmission owners transmission employees and wholesale merchant employees or the employees of any energy affiliate of the transmission owner. PJM is the independent system operator and the FERC approved RTO for the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM Interchange Energy Market and Capacity Credit Markets, and through central dispatch, controls the day to day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region wide, open access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service. In November 2004, FERC issued two orders authorizing ComEd and PECO to recover amounts for a limited time during a specified transitional period as a result of the elimination of through and out (T&O) rates for transmission service scheduled out of, or across, their respective transmission systems and ending within pre expansion territories of PJM or MISO. The new rates, known as Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA), were collected from load serving entities and paid to transmission owners within PJM and MISO over a transitional period from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006, subject to refund, surcharge and hearing. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. On May 31, 2005, FERC issued an order creating an evidentiary hearing process to examine the existing PJM transmission rate design. An administrative law judge (ALJ) order related to this process was issued on July 13, 2006, which, if adopted by FERC, would result in a change to the existing rate design. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Gas PECOs gas sales and gas transportation revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECOs purchased gas cost rates, which represent a portion of total rates, are subject to 19 Table of Contents quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased gas and the amount included in rates. PECOs gas distribution base rates for recovery of costs other than purchased gas costs will continue in effect until PECO files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. PECOs gas customers have the right to choose their gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. Approximately 35% of PECOs current total yearly throughput is provided by gas suppliers other than PECO and is related primarily to the supply of PECOs large commercial and industrial customers. Gas transportation service provided to customers by PECO remains subject to rate regulation. PECO also provides billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services. PECOs natural gas supply is provided by purchases from a number of suppliers for terms of up to three years. These purchases are delivered under long term firm transportation contracts. PECOs aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 42 million dekatherms. Peak gas is provided by PECOs liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane air plant. PECO also has under contract 22 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 33% of PECOs 2006 2007 heating season planned supplies. Construction Budget ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities. The following table shows the most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for ComEd and PECO for 2007: (in millions) ComEd PECO Electric $ 1,055 $ 269 Gas 65 Common 21 Total $ 1,055 $ 355 Approximately 50% of the projected 2007 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO are for continuing efforts to maintain and improve the reliability of their transmission and distribution systems. The remainder of the capital expenditures support customer and load growth. Employees As of December 31, 2006, Exelon and its subsidiaries had approximately 17,200 employees in the following companies: Generation 7,700 ComEd 5,500 PECO 2,100 Other (a) 1,900 Total 17,200 (a) Other includes shared services employees at Exelon Business Services Company (BSC). Approximately 5,500 employees, including 3,800 employees of ComEd, 1,600 employees of Generation and 100 employees of BSC, are covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) with 20 Table of Contents Local 15 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW Local 15). AmerGen has separate CBAs for each of its nuclear facilities, which cover an aggregate of approximately 700 employees. The Generation CBA with IBEW Local 15 has been extended to September 30, 2007. The CBA for ComEd and BSC expires on September 30, 2008. In addition, a separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, which was ratified on November 7, 2006, covers approximately 140 employees in ComEds System Services Group and expires on October 1, 2009. The Clinton, Oyster Creek and TMI CBAs expire on December 15, 2010, January 31, 2010 and February 28, 2009, respectively. Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with Utility Workers of America Local 369, covering approximately 40 employees, which was ratified effective January 31, 2007 and which continues from year to year unless either party expresses its intention to terminate the agreement. In addition, Exelon Power has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on January 31, 2008 and covers approximately 200 employees. During 2004, two elections were held at PECO, which resulted in union representation for PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory. PECO and IBEW Local 614 began negotiations for initial agreements in 2005. Although substantial progress has been made, no agreements have been finalized to date. The negotiations continue with the possibility of a tentative agreement being reached by the end of the first quarter in 2007. The current affected workgroup totals approximately 1,200 employees. The employees of the Limerick and Peach Bottom nuclear stations are not represented by a union. On May 5, 2005, a majority of these employees elected not to be represented by the IBEW 614. After contesting the election, the National Labor Relations Board ruled that a new election must be conducted. This election took place on November 16, 2006. The employees again voted against union representation. Environmental Regulation General Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by various states and local jurisdictions where Exelon operates its facilities. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. Various state environmental protection agencies or boards have jurisdiction over certain activities in states in which Exelon and its subsidiaries do business. State regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated. Those permits must be renewed periodically. Generation either has NPDES permits for all of its generating stations or has pending applications for renewals of such permits while operating under an administrative extension. In July 2004, the EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act requires that the cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts. The Phase II rule establishes national performance standards for reducing entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing power plants. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals issued its opinion in a challenge to the final Phase II rule brought by environmental groups and several states. The court found that with respect to a number of significant provisions of the rule the EPA either 21 Table of Contents exceeded its authority under the Clean Water Act, failed to adequately set forth its rationale for the rule, or failed to follow required procedures for public notice and comment. The court remanded the rule back to the EPA for revisions consistent with the courts opinion. The courts opinion has created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final compliance requirements. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail on the impact of this rule to Generation. On December 16, 2005 and February 27, 2006, the Illinois EPA issued violation notices to Generation alleging violations of state groundwater standards as a result of historical discharges of liquid tritium from a line at the Braidwood Nuclear Generating Station. On March 16, 2006, the Attorney General of the State of Illinois, and the States Attorney for Will County, Illinois filed a civil enforcement action, seeking, among other things, injunctive relief to require certain remedial actions for past tritium releases, and to prevent future releases. In addition, a class action lawsuit and several individual lawsuits were filed on behalf of persons living within the vicinity of the Braidwood Nuclear Generating Station. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, Generation had a reserve of $3 million and $7 million (pre tax), respectively, for this matter, which Generation deems adequate to cover the costs of remediation and potential related corrective measures. Generation launched an initiative across its nuclear fleet to systematically assess systems that handle tritium and take the necessary actions to minimize the risk of inadvertent discharge of tritium to the environment. On September 28, 2006, Generation announced the final results of the assessment, concluding that no active leaks had been identified at any of Generations 11 nuclear plants and no detectable tritium had been identified beyond any of the plants boundaries other than from permitted discharges, with the exception of Braidwood, as discussed above. The assessment further concluded that none of the tritium concentrations identified in the assessment pose a health or safety threat to the public or to Generations employees or contractors. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These potentially responsible parties (PRPs) can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and 22 Table of Contents RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. MGP Sites MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did, however, acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities. ComEd and PECO have identified former MGP sites for which they may be liable for remediation. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Cotter Corporation The EPA has advised Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary, that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the EPA and the various state environmental agencies in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Illinois and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act (CAA) Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution. The Amendments include a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from power plants. Flue gas desulphurization systems (SO2 scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units other than the Keystone Station. Keystone is subject to, and in compliance with, the Acid Rain Program Phase II SO2 and NOx limits of the Amendments, which became effective January 1, 2000. Generation and the other Keystone co owners formally approved on June 30, 2006 a capital plan to install SO2 scrubbers at the station for which Exelons share, based on its 20.99% ownership interest, would be approximately $150 million. In addition, Generation and the other Keystone co owners purchase SO2 emission allowances as part of their compliance strategy to meet Phase II limits. Generation has completed implementation of measures, including the installation of NOx emissions controls and the imposition of certain operational constraints, to comply with the Reasonably Available Control Technology limitations and state level ozone season (May to September) NOx reduction regulations. These state level regulations were developed by eastern states to reduce summertime NOx emissions pursuant to several Federal NOx reduction regulations (NOx SIP Call regulations) adopted by the EPA during 1998 and 1999 to address regional ozone transport. State level NOx reduction regulations took effect May 1, 2003 in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. Compliance in Illinois started May 31, 2004. Texas is not covered by the EPAs NOx SIP Call regulations. The EPAs NOx SIP Call regulations currently require 19 eastern states to reduce summertime NOx emissions. Generation has evaluated options for compliance with the NOx SIP Call regulations and installed controls on the two coal fired units at the Eddystone Generating Station and the coal fired unit at Cromby (Selective Non Catalytic Reduction) and installed controls on the two coal fired units at the 23 Table of Contents Keystone Generating Station (Selective Catalytic Reduction). Generations NOx compliance program is supplemented with the purchase of additional NOx allowances on an as needed basis. The eight peaking units commissioned during 2002 at the Southeast Chicago Generating Station are equipped with NOx controls that meet requirements for new sources. The Handley and Mountain Creek stations in the Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) area are required to comply with the DFW NOx State Implementation Plan (SIP) that commenced on May 1, 2003, and that was fully implemented on May 1, 2005. Additionally, beginning May 1, 2003, these plants were required to comply with the Emission Banking and Trading of Allowances (EBTA) program established by the State of Texas for the purpose of achieving substantial reductions in NOx from grandfathered electric generating facilities. To comply with both the DFW NOx SIP and EBTA program, Generation installed Selective Catalytic Reduction technology on Handley Units 3, 4 and 5, as well as Mountain Creek Unit 8. Additionally, Induced Flue Gas Recirculation Technology was installed on Mountain Creek Units 6 and 7. During March 2005, the EPA finalized several new rulemakings designed to reduce powerplant emissions of SO2, NOx and mercury. In its Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), the EPA established new annual (applicable in 23 eastern states) and ozone season (applicable in 25 eastern states) NOx emission caps that are scheduled to take effect in 2009. Further, CAIR requires an additional reduction of SO2 emissions in 23 eastern states starting in 2010. CAIR also requires an additional reduction of NOx and SO2 emissions in 2015. The new SO2 and NOx emission caps finalized by the EPA are substantially below current industry emission levels. In a separate rulemaking, also issued in March 2005, the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), the EPA finalized a national program to cap mercury emissions from coal fired generating units starting in 2010, with a second reduction in the mercury emission cap level scheduled for 2018. In its final CAMR, the EPA determined that it would not regulate nickel emissions from oil fired power plants, as it had considered in its proposed rulemaking. Generation is currently evaluating its compliance options with regard to the final CAIR and CAMR regulations. Final compliance decisions will be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the final form of state implementing regulations that are currently under development, as well as the resolution of legal challenges initiated by certain parties (not including Exelon) in the Federal courts regarding the final CAIR and CAMR regulations. Legal challenges to a related final rulemaking, also published in March 2005, in which the EPA rescinded its December 2000 regulatory finding on hazardous air pollutants from electric utility steam generating units, may also have an effect on Generations final compliance decisions to the extent such litigation has an effect on the CAMR. During late 2005, the EPA agreed to reconsider and take additional public comment regarding certain aspects of its final CAIR and CAMR rulemakings. In March 2006, EPA determined that it would uphold its final CAIR rulemaking without change. In May 2006, EPA determined that, except for a number of minor technical revisions, it would maintain the CAMR as previously finalized. During 2006, Pennsylvania proposed a state level mercury regulation that is more stringent than the Federal CAMR. This rulemaking was finalized in October 2006 and submitted to the EPA in November 2006. Under the first phase of the regulation, starting in 2010, pulverized coal units will be required to meet either an emission rate of 0.024 lb mercury/GWh or an 80% mercury capture efficiency and comply with a unit level annual mercury emissions limit that must be met by surrendering non tradable mercury allowances. Under the second phase of the proposed regulation, starting in 2015, units will be required to meet either a 0.012 lb/GWh emission rate or 90% capture efficiency and a reduced annual emissions limit. While the PDEP rulemaking does not allow for mercury emission allowance trading for compliance, it does allow for emission limit compliance on a facility or system wide (under common ownership) basis. In addition to Federal and state regulatory activities, several legislative proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including generating plants, have been proposed in the United States Congress. For example, several multi pollutant bills have been introduced that would reduce generating plant emissions of NOx, SO2, mercury and carbon dioxide starting late this decade and into the next decade. 24 Table of Contents At this time, Exelon can provide no assurance that new legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, will not have a significant effect on Generations operations and cash flows. Global Climate Change The United States is currently not a party to the United Nations Kyoto Protocol (Protocol) that became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at certain levels during the 2008 2012 time period. Although it is not a signatory to the Protocol, the United States may adopt a national, mandatory GHG program at some point in the future. At a regional level, on August 24, 2005, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a cooperative effort by Northeastern and Mid Atlantic states to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, one of the greenhouse gases, released a program proposal. The RGGI Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is an agreement to stabilize aggregate carbon dioxide emissions from power plants in participating states at current levels from 2009 to 2015. Further, reductions from current levels would be required to be phased in starting in 2016 such that by 2019 there would be a 10% reduction in participating state power plant emissions. As of December 31, 2006, states participating in the RGGI MOU include Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York and Vermont. Maryland, which had been an observer to the process, has also committed to join RGGI based on state legislation passed in 2006. On August 15, 2006, the RGGI model rule was finalized. RGGI member states will now be required to adopt state level legislation and or regulation to implement the program starting in 2009. Massachusetts has also recently joined RGGI as a result of legislation passed effective January 18, 2007. Further, the RGGI states will continue to work on some as yet unresolved issues, such as how to address emissions leakage due to power flows from non RGGI states into RGGI states. Generation owns a small amount of affected generating capacity in the RGGI region. At this time, Exelon is unable to predict the potential impacts of any future mandatory governmental GHG legislative or regulatory requirements on its businesses. As an integrated electric and gas utility, approximately 90% of Exelons GHG emissions result from Generations combustion of fossil fuels to generate electricity, with CO2 representing the largest quantity of GHG emitted. The majority of Generations owned generation is comprised of nuclear and hydroelectric assets that have negligible GHG emissions compared to fossil based electric generation alternatives. By virtue of Generations significant investment in these low carbon intensity assets, Generations owned generation portfolio CO2 emission intensity, or rate of CO2 emitted per kilowatt hour of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon announced on May 6, 2005 that it has established a voluntary goal to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. The 8% reduction goal represents a decrease of an estimated 1.3 million metric tons of GHG emissions. Exelon will incorporate recognition of GHG emissions and their potential cost into its business analyses as a means to promote internal investment in climate reducing activities. Exelon made this pledge under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Climate Leaders program, a voluntary industry government partnership addressing climate change. Exelon believes that its planned greenhouse gas management efforts, including increased use of renewable energy, its current energy efficiency initiatives and its efforts in the areas of carbon sequestration, will allow it to achieve this goal. The anticipated cost of achieving the voluntary GHG emissions reduction goal will not have a material effect on Exelons future results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Approximately 26 states have adopted some form of renewable portfolio standard (RPS) legislation. On November 30, 2004, Pennsylvania adopted Act 213, the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act of 2004 (AEPS Act). The AEPS Act mandates that two years after its effective date (February 28, 2005) at least 1.5% of electric energy sold by an electric distribution company or electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers must come from Tier I alternative energy resources. The Tier I requirement escalates to 8.0% by the 15th year after the effective date of the AEPS Act. The AEPS Act also establishes a Tier II requirement of 4.2% for years one through four. This requirement grows to 10.0% by the 15th year. In March 2005, the PAPUC issued its first implementation order related to the AEPS. In this order, the PAPUC established a schedule for Tier I and Tier II resources with year one covering the period June 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. During year one, compliance with the Tier I and Tier II requirements begins on February 28, 2007. Tier I resources include: solar photovoltaic energy, wind power, low impact hydro, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy and coal mine methane. A small percentage of the Tier I requirements must be met specifically by solar photovoltaic technologies (starting at 0.0013% in year 1 and escalating to 0.25% by year 10). Tier II resources include: waste coal, distributed generation systems, demand side management, large scale hydropower, municipal solid waste and several other technologies. The AEPS Act provides an exemption for electric distribution companies that have not reached the end of their cost recovery period during which competitive transition charges or intangible transition charges are being recovered. At the conclusion of the electric distribution companys cost recovery period, this exemption no longer applies and compliance by the electric distribution company is required. PECOs cost recovery period expires December 31, 2010. In the first year after the end of an electric distribution companys cost recovery period, the AEPS Act provides for cost recovery on a full and current basis pursuant to an automatic energy adjustment charge as a cost of generation supply. The banking of credits from voluntary purchases of Tier I and Tier II sources by electric distribution companies prior to the expiration of their specific cost recovery periods is also allowed under the AEPS Act. Voluntary purchases under the AEPS Act are deferred as a regulatory asset by the electric distribution company and are fully recoverable at the end of the cost recovery period, also pursuant to the automatic energy adjustment clause as a cost of generation supply. During 2006, the PAPUC issued additional implementation orders and proposed regulations related to compliance schedules, banking of alternative energy credits, compliance, cost recovery, force majeure, alternative compliance payments and voluntary alternative energy purchases. It is anticipated that, during 2007, the PAPUC will finalize regulations concerning AEPS implementation issues. While Generation is not directly affected by the AEPS Act from a compliance perspective, increased deployment of renewable and alternative energy resources within the regional power pool resulting from the AEPS Act will have some influence on regional energy markets and, at the same time, may present some opportunities for sales of renewable power. The ICC, in a January 24, 2006 order, ordered its staff to initiate three separate rulemakings regarding demand response programs, energy efficiency programs and renewable energy resources. On October 12, 2006, the ICC voted 5 to 0 to dismiss the three rulemaking proceedings. Separately on April 4, 2006, ComEd filed with the ICC a request for ICC approval to purchase and receive recovery of costs associated with the output of a portfolio of competitively procured wind resources of approximately 300 MW. ComEd asked, and the ALJ agreed, to continue these proceedings until 26 Table of Contents February 2007. In the ICCs December 20, 2006 order approving ComEds residential rate stabilization program, the ICC also strongly encouraged, but did not require, ComEd to make contributions totaling $30 million to environmental and customer assistance programs. ComEd is currently evaluating this request. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may determine to adopt such legislation in the future. Exelon is currently evaluating the potential impacts of RPS legislation on its businesses. Costs of Environmental Remediation At December 31, 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO had accrued $119 million, $20 million, $58 million and $41 million, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation. Exelon, ComEd and PECO have recorded regulatory assets of $73 million, $47 million and $26 million, respectively, related to the recovery of MGP remediation costs. See Notes 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. The amounts to be expended in 2007 at Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO for compliance with environmental requirements total approximately $41 million, $17 million, $15 million and $9 million, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Managing the Risks in the Business Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have considered the business challenges facing them and have adopted certain risk management activities. The Registrants recognize that their risk management activities address only certain of the challenges facing the Registrants and that those activities may not be effective in all circumstances. A discussion of the risks to which the Registrants businesses are subject and the potential consequences of those risks are contained in ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate the challenges of their businesses and their ability to identify and mitigate these risks. Generation Costs to meet contractual commitments. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generations nuclear plants have historically benefited from stable fuel costs, minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history. Refueling outages. Generation continues to aggressively manage its scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable generation base for Generations short and long term supply commitments and Power Team trading activities. Operating services arrangement. Effective in 2005, as a result of the OSC with PSEG Nuclear, Generation is providing services to oversee daily plant operations at the Salem and Hope Creek nuclear generating stations. Under the OSC, PSEG Nuclear remains as the license holder with exclusive legal authority to operate and maintain the stations, retains responsibility for management oversight and has full authority with respect to the marketing of its share of the output from the facilities. As a result of the OSC, Generation has decreased certain exposures and increased revenues from its share of Salem, which it co owns with PSEG Nuclear. The initial two year term of the OSC 27 Table of Contents terminated on January 16, 2007. However, PSEG Nuclear has exercised its right to require Generation to continue services under the OSC for an additional two year termination transition period. Under the OSC, PSEG Nuclear has a right to extend the termination transition period for an additional year and PSEG Nuclear has reserved its right to do so. Adequacy of funds to decommission nuclear power plants. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. The ICC permitted ComEd through 2006, and the PAPUC permits PECO to collect funds, from their customers, which are deposited in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation. The collections by PECO are based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, other than AmerGen facilities. The ICC permitted ComEd to recover $73 million per year from retail customers for decommissioning for the years 2001 through 2004 and, depending upon the portion of the output of certain generating stations taken by ComEd, up to $73 million in both 2006 and 2005. Because ComEd did not take all of the output of these stations, actual collections were $66 million and $68 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. PECO is currently recovering $33 million annually for nuclear decommissioning. It is anticipated that these collections will continue through the operating license life of each of the former PECO units, with adjustments every five years, subject to certain limitations, to reflect changes in cost estimates and decommissioning trust fund performance. These trust funds, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Certain decommissioning costs are currently being incurred; however these current amounts are not considered material compared to the total ARO. Generation develops its decommissioning trust fund investment strategy based on an estimate of the timing and costs associated with nuclear decommissioning. To the extent that actual decommissioning activities result in higher costs or are incurred in the nearer term, Generation may not have sufficient funds to pay for decommissioning. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $6.4 billion of investments in trust funds at December 31, 2006. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Credit risk. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. These policies include counterparty credit limits and, in some cases, require deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO will increase due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, beginning in 2007, collateral postings between ComEd and Generation and between Ameren and Generation will be one sided. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, ComEd or Ameren are not required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation is required to post collateral. 28 Table of Contents Extreme weather. Generation incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Wholesale energy market prices. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity trading portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2007 and 2008. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 2007 for its energy marketing portfolio. The PPA between Generation and PECO expires at the end of 2010. Market prices for electricity have generally increased significantly over the past few years due to the rise in natural gas and fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates are below current wholesale energy market prices, and Generations margins on sales in excess of ComEds and PECOs requirements have improved due to its significant capacity of low cost nuclear generating facilities. Generations ability to maintain those margins will depend on future fossil fuel prices and its ability to obtain high capacity factors at its nuclear plants. Commodity prices. Generations Power Team manages the output of Generations assets and energy sales to optimize value and reduce the volatility of Generations earnings and cash flows. Generation attempts to manage its exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. ComEd and PECO Post transition rates. In 2006, ComEd received orders from the ICC in several regulatory proceedings to establish the rates to be charged to customers effective January 2007. The first order relates to ComEds ability to procure electricity supply. The second order and the associated order on rehearing established the delivery service rates that will be charged to customers. Appeals are pending related to each order. A third order allows ComEds residential customers to have the choice to elect to defer any electric rate increases over 10% in each of the years 2007 to 2009. Any deferred balances will accrue interest and, in general, will be collected in 2010 to 2012 with a carrying charge of 3.25% per year beginning at the time of deferral. While PECO has made no regulatory filings to date to revise its transmission and distribution rates established in 2000, PECO will continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. PECO will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements PECO has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. PECO will also work to ensure that its post 2010 retail generation rates are adequate to cover its costs of obtaining electricity from its suppliers, which could include Generation. Mandatory RPS. ComEd expects to recover from customers any increased costs associated with RPS legislation if enacted. PECO is responsible for meeting its RPS requirements and, in that regard, plans to file with the PAPUC in the first quarter of 2007 a proposal to purchase renewable energy credits commencing as early as 2008. PECO expects to recover from customers all costs associated with RPSs. The Registrants are currently evaluating the potential impacts of RPS legislation on their businesses. 29 Table of Contents Power supply risks. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, ComEd has supplier forward contracts, effective January 2007, with various energy providers as a result of its reverse auction competitive bidding process. ComEd is allowed by the ICC to recover from customers the cost of purchased electricity. Therefore, should an approved supplier default and ComEd be required to purchase replacement electricity, ComEd would be entitled to recover any incremental costs from customers. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, PECO has a full requirements PPA with Generation which reduces PECOs exposure to the volatility of customer demand and market prices through 2010. Transmission congestion. ComEd and PECO have made, and expect to continue to make, significant capital expenditures to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of their transmission systems. On an ongoing basis, PJM, in cooperation with ComEd and PECO, performs screening analyses based on forecasts of future transmission system conditions in order to determine system reinforcements needed to maintain the reliable and economic operation of both systems. General Business Security risk. The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans, long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. Potential phase out of tax credits. Tax credits generated by the production of synthetic fuel are subject to a phase out provision that gradually reduces tax credits in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. See the risk factor Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations in ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for further detail. In 2005, Exelon and Generation entered into certain derivatives to economically hedge a portion of the oil price exposure related to the phase out of tax credits. These derivatives could result in after tax cash proceeds to Exelon of up to $42 million in 2007 in the event the tax credits are completely phased out. Additionally, under current laws, the tax credits related to the production of synthetic fuel expire on December 31, 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Interest rates. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and or treasury rate locks when deemed appropriate to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for further information. 30 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrants Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 61 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President Clark, Frank M. 61 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd McLean, Ian P. 57 Executive Vice President and President, Power Team Mehrberg, Randall E. 51 Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Legal Officer Moler, Elizabeth A. 58 Executive Vice President, Governmental and Environmental Affairs and Public Policy Skolds, John L. 56 Executive Vice President, Exelon, President, Exelon Energy Delivery and President, Exelon Generation Snodgrass, S. Gary 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Young, John F. 50 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets and Chief Financial Officer Hilzinger, Matthew F. 43 Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller Generation Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 61 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon Young, John F. 50 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Chief Financial Officer Skolds, John L. 56 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and President McLean, Ian P. 57 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and President, Power Team Crane, Christopher M. 48 Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear Schiavoni, Mark A. 51 Senior Vice President and President, Exelon Power Veurink, Jon D. 42 Vice President and Controller ComEd Name Age Position Clark, Frank M. 61 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mitchell, J. Barry 59 President Costello, John T. 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer McDonald, Robert K. 51 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer Pramaggiore, Anne R. 48 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs Hooker, John T. 58 Senior Vice President, Legislative and Governmental Affairs Galvanoni, Matthew R. 34 Vice President and Controller PECO Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 61 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon, and Director Young, John F. 50 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Chief Financial Officer Skolds, John L. 56 Executive Vice President, Exelon, President, Exelon Energy Delivery, and Director OBrien, Denis P. 46 President and Director Crutchfield, Lisa 43 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs Galvanoni, Matthew R. 34 Vice President and Controller 31 Table of Contents Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective companys board of directors until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Rowe was President and Co Chief Executive of Exelon, Co Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and President, Co Chief Executive Officer of PECO; and Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and Unicom. Mr. Rowe was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Clark was Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff of Exelon and President of ComEd; Senior Vice President, Distribution Customer and Marketing Services and External Affairs of ComEd; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd; Governmental Affairs Vice President; and Governmental Affairs Manager. Mr. Clark was elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Mr. Clark is listed as an executive officer of Exelon by reason of his position as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Senior Vice President of Exelon; and President of the Power Team division of PECO. Mr. McLean was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mehrberg was Senior Vice President of Exelon. Mr. Mehrberg was elected as an officer of Exelon effective December 3, 2001. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Moler was Senior Vice President, Government Affairs and Policy of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; and Director of Unicom and ComEd. Ms. Moler was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Skolds was Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear. Mr. Skolds was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Snodgrass was Chief Administrative Officer of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President of USG Corporation. Mr. Snodgrass was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Young was President of Exelon Generation; President of Exelon Power; Senior Vice President of Sierra Pacific Resources Corporation; President of Avalon Consulting; and Executive Vice President of Southern Generation. Mr. Young was elected as an officer effective March 3, 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Credit Acceptance Corporation; and Vice President, Controller of Kmart Corporation. Mr. Hilzinger was elected as an officer of Exelon effective April 15, 2002. Mr. Hilzinger was Principal Accounting Officer for ComEd and PECO through December 31, 2006. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Crane was Vice President for Exelon Nuclear; and Vice President for BWR Operations of ComEd. Mr. Crane was elected as an officer of Generation effective December 27, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Schiavoni was Vice President of Operations; and Vice President of Northeast Operations of Exelon Power. Mr. Schiavoni was elected as an officer of Generation effective September 8, 2003. 32 Table of Contents Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Veurink was a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Veurink was elected as an officer of Generation effective January 5, 2004. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mitchell was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO; Vice President and Treasurer of Exelon; and Vice President, Treasury and Evaluation, and Treasurer of PECO. Mr. Mitchell was elected as President of ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Costello was Senior Vice President of Exelon Energy Delivery Technical Services. Mr. Costello was Senior Vice President of Exelon Energy Delivery Customer and Marketing Services; and Vice President, Customer Operations. Mr. Costello was elected to his listed position with ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McDonald was Senior Vice President of Planning and Chief Risk Officer of Exelon. Mr. McDonald has also served as Chief Risk Officer of Exelon, Vice President of Planning of Exelon and Vice President of Risk Management of Exelon. He was elected to his listed position with ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Pramaggiore was Vice President, Regulatory and Strategic Services of ComEd. She has also served as Lead Counsel of ComEd. Ms. Pramaggiore was elected to her listed position with ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hooker served as Senior Vice President, ComEd, Legislative and External Affairs and Exelon Energy Delivery Real Estate and Property Management. Mr. Hooker has also served as Vice President Exelon Energy Delivery Property Management and ComEd Legislative and External Affairs; Vice President Distribution Services and Public Affairs; and Vice President of Governmental Affairs. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. OBrien was Executive Vice President of PECO; Vice President of Operations of PECO; Director of Transmission and Substations of PECO; and Director of BucksMont Region of PECO. Mr. OBrien was elected as an officer of PECO effective January 1, 2001. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Galvanoni was Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon. Mr. Galvanoni has also served as Director of Accounting and Reporting, Generation; Director of Reporting, Exelon; and was a senior manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Mr. Galvanoni was elected to his listed positions effective January 1, 2007. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Crutchfield served as Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, PECO; and Vice President and General Manager at Southern Service Center. Ms. Crutchfield was elected to her listed position effective January 1, 2007. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Registrants each operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond their control. The Registrants management regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the Registrants businesses and discusses those risks with the Risk Oversight Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors and the ComEd Board of Directors. The following items identify the material risks that the Registrants management discussed in December 2006. The safe and efficient operation of Generations nuclear fleet is a significant factor in Exelons results of operations. Although Generations nuclear plants are among the most efficient in the United States, there is a risk that Generations nuclear capacity factors could be significantly lower than planned or operating or fuel costs could be significantly higher than expected. 33 Table of Contents After 2006 in Illinois, Generation has been selling, and after 2010 in Pennsylvania, Generation will be selling more of its electricity through bilateral agreements with new and existing counterparties at prices susceptible to market fluctuations. As a result, over time Exelon will shift from a company with relatively stable cash flows from its regulated affiliates to a company with cash flows that could vary significantly with changes in market prices for electricity and natural gas. Prior to 2007, Generation supplied electricity to ComEd at prices that were below market prices. Generation supplies electricity to PECO at prices that are currently below prevailing market prices under a PPA that expires at the end of 2010. ComEds customers are experiencing increases in their costs for electric service beginning in 2007, and PECOs customers could expect to see increases in their electric bills after 2010. In Illinois, Pennsylvania and other states, there is growing pressure on state regulators and governments to take steps to reduce the impact of price increases on retail customers. A move away from fully competitive generation markets as a result of regulatory or statutory requirements could significantly affect Exelons and Generations results of operations. ComEds and PECOs business plans are based on the assumption that the utilities will receive fair regulatory treatment and therefore, based on current Federal and state regulatory structures, can recover from customers revenue sufficient to cover their costs and earn a fair return. ComEd and PECO face the risk that rates for electric service will be set at levels that do not cover their costs of the purchase and distribution of electricity plus a fair return on their investments in transmission and distribution systems. Generation attempts to reduce its exposure to energy market price fluctuations through derivative transactions. Hedging increases liquidity requirements due to margining requirements. Generations current PPA with PECO does not include a margin requirement. Beginning in 2007, Generations forward supply contracts with ComEd and third parties in Illinois do include margin requirements. Beginning in 2011, Generations contracts for supply of electricity to PECO may also include margin requirements. Generation will need to maintain expanded credit facilities to meet these margin requirements. Exelon and Generation maintain and manage trust funds to meet future employee pension, postretirement and nuclear decommissioning costs. The fund investments are market instruments that will yield uncertain returns. There is a risk that the fund investments may not achieve projected returns, which could adversely affect Exelons and Generations results of operations and cash flows. Active employee and retiree health care and pension cost are a significant part of Exelons cost structure. The costs associated with health care or pension obligations could escalate at rates higher than anticipated, which would adversely affect Exelons results of operations and cash flows. The nature of the Registrants businesses has the potential to have significant effects on the general public due to severe weather, environmental or nuclear incidents, gas explosions, or prolonged electricity outages. The financial impact of an incident that interrupts the normal operation of a Registrants business for an extended period of time could be significant. Exelon is subject to extensive environmental regulation and associated compliance costs. Regulations under section 316(b) of the Federal Clean Water Act require actions to address the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms in the cooling water intakes of electric generation facilities. A number of Generations facilities will be affected by these regulations, which could impose significant compliance costs on Generation for required modifications of its facilities. The risks listed above are discussed in further detail below, along with other risk factors identified by the Registrants. These risk factors, as well as the risks discussed in ITEM 7. Managements 34 Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Exelon Liquidity and Capital Resources, may adversely affect the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. While each of the Registrants believes it has identified and discussed the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect its performance or financial condition. Generation Market Transition Risks Due to its dependence on two of its significant customers, ComEd and PECO, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of either of its most significant customers. Generation currently provides power under a PPA with PECO and supplier forward contracts with ComEd to meet 100% of PECOs electricity supply requirements and up to 35% of ComEds electricity supply requirements. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds and PECOs continued payments under these supplier forward contracts and the PPA and would be adversely affected by negative events affecting these agreements, including the non performance or a change in the creditworthiness of either ComEd or PECO. A default by ComEd or PECO under these agreements would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. Generations business may be negatively affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, to meet long term obligations not provided by its own resources and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features, which may create trading barriers among the markets. Approximately 79% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations, however, will depend on (1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the development of competitive wholesale power markets, such as the PJM market and (2) with respect to PJM, the absence of material changes to market structure that limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the market. Provider of Last Resort. PECO and ComEd have POLR obligations to meet their respective retail customers energy supply needs. To enable it to fulfill that obligation through the end of 2010, PECO has a full requirements PPA with Generation. To fulfill its obligation for energy supply beginning in 2007, ComEd has and will in the future conduct procurement auctions. In the first ICC approved procurement auction, 14 wholesale suppliers, including Generation, won the right to provide to ComEd the energy supply it needs to serve its retail customers from January 1, 2007 through May 31, 2008. Generations share of this supply is 35%. Because retail customers in both Pennsylvania and Illinois can switch from PECO or ComEd to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet PECOs obligation to supply PECO with all of the energy PECO needs to fulfill its POLR obligation and to provide the supply needed to serve Generations 35% share of the ComEd load is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting 35 Table of Contents projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is the ability of retail customers to switch to competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch than Generation anticipates, the PECO and or ComEd load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more of such customers switch than Generation anticipates, the PECO and /or ComEd load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, caused Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to competition in the energy industry. Generations financial performance depends in part on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. These new generating facilities may be more efficient than Generations facilities. The introduction of new technologies could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. Generations financial growth depends in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. As the demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Both Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Nuclear Operations Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 24 days in duration. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 24 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the AmerGen plants and the co owned plants, was 11 in 2006 with 9 planned for 2007. The projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation will increase 36 Table of Contents in 2007 compared to 2006 by approximately $37 million as Generation continues to invest in equipment upgrades to ensure safe reliable operations. Total operating and maintenance expenditures are expected to increase by approximately $52 million in 2007 compared to 2006 as a result of inflationary cost increases. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization and or increased outage costs. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Also, any regulatory action relating to the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may adversely affect Generations ability to fully decommission the nuclear units. In addition, through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs. Should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Environmental risk. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations establishing a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing generating stations requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Oyster Creek, Salem or other Exelon power plants, this could result in material costs of compliance. In addition, the amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to renew the operating license. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation 37 Table of Contents may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generations, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $10.76 billion limit for a single incident. Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations portion of the NEIL distribution for 2006 was $44 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Operations. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2006, Generation identified trust funds for 6 units, which, at current market levels, are being funded at a rate less than anticipated with respect to NRC Funding Levels. In December 2006, Generation made a submission to the NRC addressing this issue, demonstrating in accordance with NRC requirements, that the trust funds for these 6 units indeed met NRC Funding Levels and remain adequately funded compared to the NRC Funding Level, when using alternate evaluation criteria allowed by NRC regulations. The NRC Funding Levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence at the end of current licensed life. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to provide other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Other Operating Risks Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. A significant portion of Generations portfolio is used to provide power under a long term PPA with PECO and supplier forward contracts with ComEd beginning January 2007, as a result of the expiration of the PPA between Generation and ComEd at the end of 2006. To the extent portions of the 38 Table of Contents portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent its portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of ComEd and PECO under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation relies on the availability of electric transmission facilities that it does not own or control to deliver its wholesale electric power to the purchasers of the power, which may adversely affect its ability to deliver power to its customers. Generation depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other companies, including ComEd and PECO, to deliver the power that it sells at wholesale. If transmission at these facilities is disrupted or transmission capacity is inadequate, Generation may not be able to sell and deliver its wholesale power. The North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at a point within the grid can cause a systemic response that results in an extensive power outage. If a regions power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, Generations recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. In addition, if restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. FERC has required electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales since 1996. Although this encourages wholesale market transactions for electricity, access to transmission systems may not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. Generation also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. The expansion of PJM and the growth of other RTOs mitigate this risk to a degree as RTOs facilitate bilateral transactional activity in the physical wholesale markets wholly within those RTOs without any need to secure transmission service. Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity under long term and short term contracts in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation that is not used to meet its long term supply commitments, including its commitments to ComEd and PECO, are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity likely reflects the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money or energy will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to 39 Table of Contents purchase or sell power in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. Generations credit risk profile is anticipated to change based on the creditworthiness of new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. Additionally, due to the possibility of rate freeze legislation in Illinois affecting both ComEd and Ameren, Generation may be subject to the risk of default and, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by ComEd or Ameren, a risk that the bankruptcy may result in rejection of contracts for the purchase of electricity. A default by ComEd or Ameren on contracts for purchase of electricity, or a rejection of those contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding, could result in a disruption in the wholesale power markets. For additional information on the ComEd auction and the various regulatory proceedings and possible legislative actions, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the retail businesses subject Generation to credit risk resulting from a different customer base. Risk of Credit Downgrades. Generations trading business is required to meet credit quality standards. If Generation were to lose its investment grade credit rating or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. If Generation had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2006, it would have been required to provide approximately $880 million in collateral. Immature Markets. Certain wholesale spot markets are new and evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. This activity may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its energy trading activities. Power Teams power trading (including fuel procurement and power marketing) activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with 40 Table of Contents these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its power trading and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generations business is capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations results of operations could be adversely affected if Generation were unable to effectively manage its capital projects. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of fossil and nuclear fuel. Generation depends on coal, natural gas and nuclear fuel assemblies to operate its generating facilities. Coal is procured for coal fired plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. Natural gas is procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas and nuclear fuel assemblies are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. It is not possible to predict the ultimate cost or availability of these commodities. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with these commodity price exposures. ComEd and PECO The following risk factors separately apply to each ComEd and PECO as further noted below. Regulatory Risks Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines, which may not be limited by statute. Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. For example, in ComEds most recent rate cases in Illinois, the ICC took eleven months to issue its orders which were followed by rehearing proceedings and numerous appeals. In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters and customer initiatives. These settlements are typically subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by the Illinois and Pennsylvania state regulators for establishing rates. Nevertheless, the expectation is that 41 Table of Contents ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR obligations, whereby each utility is required to provide electricity service to customers in its service area who choose to obtain their electricity from the utility. The ultimate outcome of these regulatory actions will have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, lengthy proceedings and time delays in implementing new rates relative to when costs are actually incurred could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. ComEds and PECOs established rates are subject to subsequent prudency reviews by the state regulators. The ICC and PAPUC can adjust various portions of ComEds and PECOs, respectively, established rates, including rates for the procurement of electricity and the recovery of MGP remediation costs, in the regulatory process as a result of subsequent prudency reviews. The prudency reviews add uncertainty to established rates. Increases in customer rates may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer balances for ComEd and PECO. Future recoverability of any additional uncollectible customer balances is subject to regulatory proceedings. Effective January 2007, ComEds customer rates for delivery service and procurement of electricity increased. Additionally, ComEds residential customers have the choice to elect to defer certain increases to future periods. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. PECOs gas rates may change quarterly based on market conditions which may lead to higher prices. Additionally, PECOs electric rates have increased in recent years as permitted under the Electric Restructuring Settlement and the PECO/Unicom Merger Settlement Agreements. Due to increased rates and the future collection of deferred balances, ComEd and PECO may experience a greater amount of uncollectible customer balances. ComEd may file for voluntary relief under the provisions of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code if rate rollback and freeze legislation is enacted into law. In January 2007, ComEd began billing customers under new rates approved by the ICC. These rates reflect the pricing in supplier forward contracts entered into as a result of a reverse auction competitive bidding process for ComEds procurement of electricity. Various governmental and consumer groups have opposed the increased rates that are a byproduct of this auction, and legislation previously proposed in the Illinois House that, if enacted, would provide for a rate rollback and three year rate freeze extension. If such legislation is enacted into law, ComEd would have contractual obligations to purchase electricity under the supplier forward contracts at prices higher than the rates it would be allowed to collect from its customers for electricity. ComEd has estimated that it could incur operating losses of approximately $1.4 billion per year ($850 million after taxes) or more, depending on various factors, if rates were rolled back and the transition period rate freeze is extended through 2009. Also, ComEds ability to obtain new financing or the ability to refinance maturing debt instruments in 2007, would be severely limited due to expected shortfalls in cash flow, likely further credit downgrades to below investment grade and the threat of a bankruptcy filing. ComEds projected cash shortfall under a rate freeze extension is anticipated to be approximately $1.4 billion or more in 2007. If rate rollback and rate freeze legislation is passed and allowed to take effect, the associated negative financial implications could lead ComEd to file for voluntary relief under the provisions of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 42 Table of Contents The impact of not meeting the criteria of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" (SFAS No. 71) could be material to ComEd and PECO. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd, and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2006, the income statement gain could have been as much as $2.3 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2006, the income statement charge could have been as much as $3.7 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record an income statement gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against other comprehensive income of up to $1.4 billion (before taxes) related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which would be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities also could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 1, 4, 8 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Mandatory RPS could negatively affect ComEds and PECOs costs. Federal or state legislation mandating the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could result in significant changes in ComEds and PECOs businesses, including renewable energy credit purchase costs, purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital expenditures. ComEd and PECO continue to monitor developments related to RPSs at the Federal and state levels. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEd and PECO could be subject to higher transmission operating costs in the future as a result of PJMs regional transmission expansion plan (RTEP). On November 7, 2006, FERC established hearing procedures to review the cost allocations proposed by PJM for a number of PJM mandated RTEP projects that will be placed into service over the next three years. ComEd and PECO did not challenge PJMs allocations of cost to them but, due to the uncertain scope of the matter and the nature of certain allocation issues specifically reserved for hearing, the matter may have an adverse impact on ComEds and PECOs operating costs in the future. PECO may be subject to the risk of a legislative or regulatorily mandated requirement to purchase Philadelphia Gas Works (PGW). PGW is a municipal gas utility owned by the City of Philadelphia that provides service almost exclusively within Philadelphia. One Pennsylvania state legislator recently submitted legislation to the 43 Table of Contents Pennsylvania General Assembly that would provide the PAPUC with the authority to investigate PGWs fitness to provide gas service and, if deemed unfit, to require a qualified public utility to purchase PGWs gas assets. If such legislation is enacted, PECO, with a gas service territory contiguous to, and an electric service territory that includes Philadelphia, could be subject to a proceeding in which efforts are made to require PECO to purchase PGWs gas assets. While PECO believes that such a forced purchase would be unlawful, such a proceeding could expose PECO potentially to significant economic risk. PECO may be required to change various business processes as a result of PAPUC management audit findings. Under Pennsylvania law, a public utility is subject to a broad management and operations audit conducted by the PAPUC or a consultant hired by the PAPUC every five to eight years. PECO is currently undergoing such an audit by a consultant hired by the PAPUC. Areas of the audit include, among others, electric and gas operations, corporate governance, customer service, and affiliate relations. A final audit report is expected to be issued by the PAPUC in the third quarter of 2007. The audit could result in recommendations that PECO change various business processes to improve its effectiveness in providing electric and gas service to its customers. Financial and Operating Risks ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the transmission and delivery of electricity and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers may decrease PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Gas rates charged to customers are comprised primarily of purchased gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to PECO, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to PECO. Purchased gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customers bill and may be adjusted quarterly, are designed for PECO to recover the cost of the gas commodity and pipeline transportation and storage services that PECO procures to service its customers. PECOs cash flows can be impacted by differences between the time period when gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. 44 Table of Contents When purchased gas cost charges increase substantially reflecting higher gas procurement costs incurred by PECO, customer usage may decrease, resulting in lower distribution charges and lower profit margins for PECO. In addition, increased purchased gas cost charges to customers also may result in increased bad debt expense from an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances. The effects of weather and the related impact on electricity and gas usage may decrease ComEds and PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd and PECO typically report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme weather conditions or storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs operations. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. ComEds and PECOs results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if they are unable to effectively manage their own respective capital projects or if they do not receive full recovery of their own respective capital costs through future regulatory proceedings. Other Exelons and ComEds goodwill may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $2.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2006 in connection with the PECO/Unicom merger. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, such as the impairments recorded during 2006 and 2005, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. There is a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at ComEd, and at Exelon, in 2007 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, market prices for power, results of ComEds post 2006 rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. 45 Table of Contents General Business The following risk factors may adversely impact several or all of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Exelons generation and energy delivery businesses may be negatively affected by possible state legislative or regulatory actions that could limit the retail price of electricity or place burdens on its generation business. Criticism of restructured electricity markets in public forums escalated during 2006 as retail rate freezes expired in a number of states as fuel prices increased, thereby driving up retail prices for electricity. ComEds customers are experiencing increases in their costs for electric service beginning in 2007, and PECOs customers could expect to see increases in their electric bills after 2010. Consumers in other states are also experiencing significant rate increases. In Illinois, Pennsylvania and other states, there is growing pressure for state regulatory and political processes to take steps to reduce the impact of price increases on retail customers. The political pressure for states to retreat from allowing competitively priced supplies to serve retail load and to return to cost based regulation of generation resources or take other actions directed at generators of electricity creates heightened risk of limitations on the retail price of electricity, which could significantly affect the results of operations of ComEd and PECO, and a heightened risk of imposition of restrictions and other burdens on Exelons generation business, which could significantly affect Generations results of operations. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal legislative or regulatory actions that could weaken competition in the wholesale markets or affect pricing rules in the RTO markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which escalated during 2006 as retail rate freezes expired and prices for electricity increased with rising fuel prices, is expected to continue in 2007. A number of advocacy groups have urged FERC to reconsider its support for competitive wholesale electricity markets, and to require the RTOs to revise the rules governing the RTO administered markets. In particular, the advocacy groups oppose the RTOs use of a single clearing price for electricity sold in the RTO markets. FERC has announced that it will convene a series of public conferences during 2007 to address the issues surrounding electric competition. While FERC has not proposed to revise its pricing rules, these events create heightened risk of changes in FERCs rules governing wholesale electricity markets, which in turn could significantly affect Generations results of operations. In addition, FERC has proposed to revise the tests that market participants must satisfy to be entitled to market based rates. The actual impacts of any new rules that are approved as a result of FERCs future ruling related to market based rates could significantly affect Generations results of operations. Results of operations may be negatively affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. As a result of the regulatory recovery process for ComEd and PECO, rate caps for PECO and price pressures due to competition, ComEd and PECO may not be able to recover the costs of inflation from their customers on a timely basis. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. These medical benefit costs are increasing at a rate that is significantly greater than the rate of general inflation. Additionally, it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate which is higher than anticipated by the Registrants. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs or other increasing costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. 46 Table of Contents Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants and under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, their results of operation and financial position could be negatively affected. Exelons holding company structure could limit its ability to pay dividends. Exelon is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from the amount of retained, undistributed or current earnings. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. Exelon and Generation will be negatively affected if ComEd files for voluntary relief under the provisions of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. There is a risk that ComEd will be required to seek protection in bankruptcy if legislation is enacted in Illinois to extend the rate freeze that expired in January 2007. Exelon anticipates that a bankruptcy filing by ComEd would have significant adverse consequences for Exelon and Generation. These adverse consequences may include, but are not limited to: a significant loss in value of Exelons investment in ComEd; possible dilution of Exelons ownership interest in ComEd; possible reductions in credit ratings which could increase borrowing costs; uncertainty in collection of receivables from ComEd for services provided by BSC; uncertainty in the enforcement of Generations rights under its supplier forward contracts with ComEd and possible rejection of the supplier forward contracts in a ComEd bankruptcy; significant legal and other costs associated with the bankruptcy filing; possible negative income tax consequences; and possible reduced ability to effectively administer and allocate the costs of the various Exelon sponsored benefit plans. These items, along with other possible negative effects of a ComEd bankruptcy, could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. As a result of the Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, will be subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. These standards are currently being applied on a 47 Table of Contents voluntary basis and are expected to become mandatory in June 2007. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk electric system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. Generation will incur material costs of compliance if regulations under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act require retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at power plants owned by Generation. In addition, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to contribute to a fund with a material contribution to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. Select northeast and mid Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate carbon emissions from fossil fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and or state legislation to regulate carbon emissions could occur in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon and Generation may incur costs to either further limit the emissions from certain of their fossil fuel fired facilities or in procuring emission allowance credits issued by various governing bodies. For additional information regarding environmental matters, including nuclear generating station groundwater, see Environmental Regulation in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. War, acts and threats of terrorism and natural disaster may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. Exelon does not know the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military 48 Table of Contents campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Exelons operations. Additionally, the continuing military activity in Iraq, Afghanistan and other wars may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Exelons revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect Exelons results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in increased costs. Additionally, Exelon is affected by changes in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes, storms and other natural disasters in its service territory and throughout the U.S. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive which could result in increased costs including supply chain costs. Changes in the availability and cost of insurance mean that the Registrants have greater exposure to economic loss due to property damage and liability. The Registrants carry property damage and liability insurance for their properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, the costs of obtaining such insurance may be higher and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. The Registrants are self insured for deductibles and to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under property damage and liability insurance, together with the deductible, could negatively affect the Registrants results of operations. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), such as Exelons decision to defer the tax gain on ComEds 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected, and tax credits, including the potential phase out of tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal, in the financial statements. Other than as noted below, the Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. See Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Increases in state income taxes and fees. Due to the revenue needs of the states in which the Registrants operate, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being considered. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase state income tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. In connection with the first reverse auction competitive bidding process, which took place in Illinois during September 2006, Exelon assessed any impacts from the results of the auction on its state 49 Table of Contents income tax obligations and considered potential strategies and or alternative interpretations that may be employed to mitigate these impacts. As a result, Exelon does not believe the results of the auction will significantly affect the provision for state income taxes reported by Exelon on an annual basis. However, managements estimates of future income tax rates are affected by various factors and actual income tax obligations may differ from managements estimates. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the reverse auction competitive bidding process. 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. Exelon, through its ComEd subsidiary, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the IRS, to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. Exelons ability to continue to defer all or a portion of this liability depends on whether its treatment of the sales proceeds as having been received in connection with an involuntary conversion is proper pursuant to applicable law. Exelons ability to continue to defer the remainder of this liability may depend in part on whether its tax characterization of a sale leaseback transaction into which ComEd entered in connection with the fossil plant sale is proper pursuant to applicable law. The Federal tax returns and related tax return disclosures covering the period of the 1999 sale are currently under IRS audit. The IRS has indicated its position that the ComEd sale leaseback transaction is substantially similar to a leasing transaction, a sale in, lease out (SILO), the IRS is treating as a listed transaction pursuant to guidance it issued in 2005. A listed transaction is one that the IRS considers to be a potentially abusive tax shelter. As a result of the IRS characterization of the lease transaction as a listed transaction, the IRS is likely to vigorously challenge the transaction and has sought to obtain information not normally requested in audits. Exelon disagrees with the IRS characterization of its sale leaseback as a SILO and believes its position is correct under the tax law and will aggressively defend that position upon audit and any subsequent appeals or litigation. In November 2006, ComEd received from the IRS a notice of proposed adjustment disallowing the deferral of gain associated with its position that proceeds from the fossil plant sales resulted from an involuntary conversion. ComEd plans to protest this adjustment following receipt of the final IRS audit report, which is expected in late 2007. A successful IRS challenge to ComEds positions would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that becomes currently payable. As of December 31, 2006, Exelons potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $960 million. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, it could negatively affect Exelons results of operations by as much as $166 million (after tax) related to interest expense. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries, has investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45K contains a provision under which tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. Recent events, such as terrorism, natural disasters and strong worldwide demand, have significantly increased the price of domestic crude oil and, therefore, have created uncertainty as to the value of future synthetic fuel tax credits. At December 31, 2006, Exelon has estimated the 2007 phase out of tax credits to be 18%. This estimate for 2007 may change significantly due to the volatility of oil prices. Absent any efforts to mitigate price exposure, a phase out could result in the reduction of non operating net income generated by the investments. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Executive Overview and Liquidity and Capital Resources in ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for further detail. 50 Table of Contents Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance of these guaranteed obligations by the third parties, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance could have a material impact on the financial statements of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding guarantees. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. The Registrants may continue to pursue investments that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. With the repeal of PUHCA, the Registrants are free to make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that were formerly not permitted under PUHCA and that might present more risk than the types of investments and mergers and acquisitions that were permitted under PUHCA. However, with the repeal of PUHCA, it is possible that FERC or the state public utility commissions may impose certain other restrictions on the investments that the Registrants may make. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2006. The table does not include properties held by equity method investments: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type PrimaryDispatch Type (e) Net GenerationCapacity (MW) (b) Nuclear (c) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,048 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,742 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,302 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,135 (d) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,303 (d) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 969 (d) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,945 (continued on next page) 51 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type PrimaryDispatch Type (e) Net GenerationCapacity (MW) (b) Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (d) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Intermediate 147 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 211 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Intermediate 599 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 916 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 400 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (d) Mountain Creek 2, 6, 7 Dallas, TX 3 Gas Peaking 273 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 550 New Boston 1 South Boston, MA 1 Gas Intermediate 355 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 175 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (d) 5,191 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 54 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 497 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 74 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 76 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 60 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 41 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 160 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 172 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 60 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 18 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 132 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 38 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 312 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 72 1,788 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 536 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 1,606 Total 126 25,543 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (c) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (d) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. 52 Table of Contents (e) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of low efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels and pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the property deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ComEd and PECO The electric substations and a portion of the transmission rights of way are located on property owned by ComEd and PECO. A significant portion of the electric transmission and distribution facilities is located over or under highways, streets, other public places or property owned by others, for which permits, grants, easements or licenses, deemed satisfactory by ComEd and PECO but without examination of underlying land titles, have been obtained. Transmission and Distribution ComEds and PECOs higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2006 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles ComEd 765,000 90 345,000 2,621 138,000 2,867 69,000 149 PECO 500,000 188 (a) 220,000 541 132,000 156 66,000 153 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,197 circuit miles of overhead lines and 34,917 cable miles of underground lines. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,811 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,224 cable miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2006: Pipeline Miles Transmission 31 Distribution 6,623 Service piping 5,398 Total 12,052 53 Table of Contents PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania which has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. Mortgages The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first mortgage bonds are issued. Insurance ComEd and PECO maintain property insurance against loss or damage to their respective properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd and PECO are self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd or PECO. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 54 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2007, there were 670,157,335 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 154,087 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2006 2005 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 63.62 $ 61.98 $ 58.86 $ 59.90 $ 56.00 $ 57.46 $ 52.01 $ 47.18 Low price 57.83 56.74 51.13 52.79 46.62 49.60 44.14 41.77 Close 61.89 60.54 56.83 52.90 53.14 53.44 51.33 45.89 Dividends 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 Effective October 24, 2005, Exelons Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation were amended to increase the number of authorized shares of Exelon common stock from 1.2 billion to 2 billion. The attached table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Exelon of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2006. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 1 October 31, 2006 10,460 $ 60.55 (b ) November 1 November 30, 2006 59.28 2,223,250 (b ) Total 10,460 59.29 2,223,250 (b ) (a) Shares other than those purchased as a part of a publicly announced plan primarily represent restricted shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares. (b) In April 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program that allows Exelon to repurchase shares of its common stock on a periodic basis in the open market. The share repurchase program is intended to mitigate, in part, the dilutive effect of shares issued under Exelons employee stock option plan and Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The aggregate shares of common stock repurchased pursuant to the program cannot exceed the economic benefit received after January 1, 2004 due to stock option exercises and share purchases pursuant to Exelons ESPP. The economic benefit consists of direct cash proceeds from purchases of stock and tax benefits associated with exercises of stock options. The share repurchase program has no specified limit and no specified termination date. Generation As of January 31, 2007, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. 55 Table of Contents ComEd As of January 31, 2007, there were outstanding 127,016,519 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At January 31, 2007, in addition to Exelon, there were 269 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. PECO As of January 31, 2007, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd may not declare any dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to ComEd Financing II or ComEd Financing III; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of ComEd Financing II or ComEd Financing III; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2006, such capital was $2.8 billion and amounted to about 32 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PECO Energy Capital, L.P. (PEC L.P.) or PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. At December 31, 2006, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.4 billion, which includes Generations undistributed earnings of $1.8 billion, ComEds retained deficit of $(193) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1.6) billion, partially offset by $1.4 billion of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends and PECOs retained earnings of $584 million. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 56 Table of Contents The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2006 2005 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 165 $ 122 $ 157 $ 165 $ 108 $ 430 $ 80 $ 239 ComEd 146 107 107 138 PECO 134 117 135 116 122 116 116 115 On December 5, 2006, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.44 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2007, to shareholders of record of Exelon at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on February 15, 2007. This dividend declaration was made by the Exelon Board of Directors in connection with the Board of Directors approval of a value return policy that established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. The value return policy contemplates the use of share repurchases from time to time, when authorized by the Board of Directors, to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. Previously, Exelon had maintained a dividend payout policy of between 50 60% of ongoing operating earnings. During 2006, ComEd did not pay a quarterly dividend. This decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend on a quarterly basis. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. 57 Table of Contents For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 15,148 $ 14,060 Operating income 3,521 2,724 3,499 2,409 3,280 Income from continuing operations $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 1,870 $ 892 $ 1,690 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 2 14 (29 ) (99 ) (20 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,592 965 1,841 793 1,670 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (42 ) 23 112 (230 ) Net income (a), (b) $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 1,440 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 2.35 $ 1.40 $ 2.79 $ 1.36 $ 2.60 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 (0.04 ) (0.15 ) (0.03 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (0.06 ) 0.03 0.17 (0.35 ) Net income $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ 1.38 $ 2.22 Dividends per common share $ 1.60 $ 1.60 $ 1.26 $ 0.96 $ 0.88 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 676 676 669 657 649 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Change between 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. December 31, in millions 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 4,992 $ 4,637 $ 3,880 $ 4,524 $ 4,096 Property, plant and equipment, net 22,775 21,981 21,482 20,630 17,957 Noncurrent regulatory assets 5,808 4,734 5,076 5,564 6,061 Goodwill (a) 2,694 3,475 4,705 4,719 4,992 Other deferred debits and other assets 8,050 7,970 7,867 6,800 5,249 Total assets $ 44,319 $ 42,797 $ 43,010 $ 42,237 $ 38,355 Current liabilities $ 5,795 $ 6,563 $ 4,836 $ 5,683 $ 5,845 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (c) 11,911 11,760 12,148 13,489 13,127 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 2,975 2,518 2,490 2,229 1,001 Other deferred credits and other liabilities (b) 13,578 12,743 13,918 12,246 9,968 Minority interest 1 42 77 Preferred securities of subsidiaries (c) 87 87 87 87 595 Shareholders equity 9,973 9,125 9,489 8,503 7,742 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 44,319 $ 42,797 $ 43,010 $ 42,237 $ 38,355 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Change between 2006 and 2005 was primarily due to the impact of adopting SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158). (c) Due to the adoption of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of ComEd and PECO were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003. 58 Table of Contents Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. The results of operations for Generations retail business are not included in periods prior to 2004. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 8,135 $ 6,858 Operating income (loss) 2,396 1,852 1,039 (115 ) 509 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 657 $ (241 ) $ 387 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 4 19 (16 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,407 1,128 641 (241 ) 387 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (30 ) 32 108 13 Net income (loss) (a) $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 673 $ (133 ) $ 400 (a) Change between 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,433 $ 3,040 $ 2,321 $ 2,438 $ 1,805 Property, plant and equipment, net 7,514 7,464 7,536 7,106 4,698 Deferred debits and other assets 7,962 7,220 6,581 5,105 4,402 Total assets $ 18,909 $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 Current liabilities $ 2,914 $ 3,400 $ 2,416 $ 3,553 $ 2,594 Long term debt 1,778 1,788 2,583 1,649 2,132 Deferred credits and other liabilities 8,736 8,554 8,356 6,488 3,226 Minority interest 1 2 44 3 54 Members equity 5,480 3,980 3,039 2,956 2,899 Total liabilities and members equity $ 18,909 $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 59 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ 6,124 Operating income (loss) 555 (12 ) 1,617 1,567 1,766 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ (112 ) $ (676 ) $ 676 $ 702 $ 790 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (9 ) 5 Net income (loss) (a) $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ 707 $ 790 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,007 $ 1,024 $ 1,196 $ 1,313 $ 1,049 Property, plant and equipment, net 10,457 9,906 9,463 9,096 8,689 Goodwill, net (a) 2,694 3,475 4,705 4,719 4,916 Noncurrent regulatory assets 532 280 240 326 515 Other deferred debits and other assets 3,084 2,806 2,077 2,837 1,662 Total assets $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 $ 18,291 $ 16,831 Current liabilities $ 1,600 $ 2,308 $ 1,764 $ 1,557 $ 2,023 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (b) 4,133 3,541 4,282 5,887 5,268 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 2,824 2,450 2,444 2,217 1,001 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,919 2,796 2,451 2,288 2,451 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (b) 330 Shareholders equity 6,298 6,396 6,740 6,342 5,758 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 $ 18,291 $ 16,831 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Due to the adoption of FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts as of December 31, 2003. 60 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 4,388 $ 4,333 Operating income 866 1,049 1,014 1,056 1,093 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 441 $ 520 $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (3 ) Net income $ 441 $ 517 $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 Net income on common stock $ 437 $ 513 $ 452 $ 468 $ 478 December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 762 $ 795 $ 727 $ 659 $ 898 Property, plant and equipment, net 4,651 4,471 4,329 4,256 4,159 Noncurrent regulatory assets 3,896 4,454 4,836 5,238 5,546 Other deferred debits and other assets 464 366 241 232 88 Total assets $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 $ 10,385 $ 10,691 Current liabilities $ 978 $ 936 $ 748 $ 676 $ 1,509 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (a) 3,784 4,143 4,628 5,239 4,951 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 151 68 46 12 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 3,051 3,235 3,313 3,442 3,342 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (a) 128 Shareholders equity 1,809 1,704 1,398 1,016 761 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 $ 10,385 $ 10,691 (a) Due to the adoptions of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003. 61 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon General Exelon is a utility services holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following operating segments: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail and wholesale customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose businesses consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Exelons corporate operations, through its business services subsidiary, BSC, provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $1,592 million in 2006 as compared to $923 million in 2005 and diluted earnings per average common share were $2.35 for 2006 as compared to $1.36 for 2005. The increases were primarily due to the following: a $1.2 billion impairment charge in 2005 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher margins on wholesale market sales and increased nuclear output at Generation; a one time benefit of approximately $290 million to recover certain costs approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order and the ICCs December 2006 amended rate order; unrealized mark to market gains on contracts not yet settled; a decrease in Generations nuclear asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in managements assessment of the probabilities associated with the anticipated timing of cash flows to decommission primarily the AmerGen nuclear plants; increased electric revenues at PECO associated with certain scheduled rate increases; increased kWh deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, reflecting 2006 load growth at ComEd and PECO; losses recorded in 2005 for the cumulative effect of adopting Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (FIN 47); and 62 Table of Contents a reserve recorded by Generation in 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims. The factors driving the overall increase in net income were partially offset by the following: a $776 million impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order; a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the now terminated proposed merger with PSEG; increased severance and severance related charges; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; reduced earnings from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and the impairment of the associated intangible asset; increased depreciation and amortization expense, primarily related to CTC amortization at PECO; higher operating and maintenance expenses, including increased nuclear refueling outage costs, increased costs associated with incremental storm damage in the PECO service territory, expenses related to stock based compensation as a result of adopting Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123 R) and the impacts of inflation; increased interest expense associated with the debt issued in March 2005 to fund Exelons pension contributions; and gains realized in 2005 on AmerGens decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes to the investment strategy. Termination of Proposed Merger with PSEG. On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into a Merger Agreement with PSEG, a public utility holding company primarily located and serving customers in New Jersey, whereby PSEG would be merged with and into Exelon (Merger). On September 14, 2006, Exelon gave formal notice to PSEG that Exelon had terminated the Merger Agreement and the companies agreed to withdraw their application for Merger approval, which had been pending before the NJBPU for more than 19 months. The notice followed a number of discussions with state officials and other interested parties, which made clear that gaps separating the parties respective settlement positions were insurmountable. Major differences included, among other things, issues relating to rate concessions and market power mitigation. During 2006, Exelon recorded Merger related expenses of approximately $93 million (pre tax), of which $55 million relates to the write off of the capitalized costs associated with the Merger. Including this $93 million of expenses, total Merger related expenses incurred since the inception of the Merger discussions were approximately $130 million. Financing Activities. During 2006, Exelon met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources, including the capital markets, and through bank borrowings. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. In addition, ComEd and PECO issued First Mortgage Bonds of $1.1 billion and $300 million, respectively, in 2006. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the credit facilities and the bond issuances. 63 Table of Contents Regulatory and Environmental Developments. The following significant regulatory and environmental developments occurred during 2006. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. ComEd Procurement Case On January 24, 2006, the ICC approved ComEds procurement case, authorizing ComEd to procure electricity after 2006 through a reverse auction competitive bidding process and to recover the costs from retail customers with no markup. The first auction took place in September 2006. As a result of the auction, ComEd has entered into supplier forward contracts with various suppliers including Generation. The ICC order is under appeal. Illinois Rate Freeze Extension Proposal In 2006 and 2007, various bills, amendments and compromise legislation were separately passed by the Illinois House and the Illinois Senate including, in the Illinois House, an extension of the Illinois transition period rate freeze with a rollback of rates to 2006 levels. However, the Illinois General Assembly adjourned on January 9, 2007 without taking further action on such bills. As a result, all pending legislation expired. ComEd believes any rate rollback and freeze legislation, if proposed again and enacted into law, would have serious detrimental effects on Illinois, ComEd and consumers of electricity. ComEd believes such legislation would violate Federal law and the U.S. Constitution, and ComEd is prepared to vigorously challenge any such legislation in court. ComEd Residential Rate Stabilization On December 20, 2006, the ICC approved a residential rate stabilization program that allows residential customers the choice to limit the impact of any rate increase over the next three years. For customers choosing to participate in the program, electric rate increases would be capped at 10% in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009. Costs that exceed the caps would be deferred and recovered over three years from 2010 to 2012. Deferred balances will be assessed an annual carrying charge of 3.25%. If ComEds rate increases are less than the caps in 2008 and 2009, ComEd would begin to recover deferred amounts up to the caps with carrying costs. This order also strongly encouraged, but did not require, ComEd to make contributions totaling $30 million to environmental and customer assistance programs. ComEd is currently evaluating this request. This order is subject to rehearing and appeal. ComEd Rate Case On July 26, 2006, the ICC issued its order in the Rate Case approving a revenue increase of approximately $8 million and the recovery of several items that previously were recorded as expense. On December 20, 2006, the ICC approved an amended order on the rehearing of the Rate Case allowing an additional revenue increase of approximately $74 million, including a partial return on the pension asset, for a total rate increase of $83 million. ComEd and various other parties have appealed the rate order to the courts. As a result of the July 26, 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded an after tax impairment charge of $776 million associated with the write off of goodwill. Nuclear Fleet Inspection In February 2006, Exelon and Generation launched an initiative across its nuclear fleet to systematically assess systems that handle tritium and take the necessary actions to minimize the risk of inadvertent discharge of tritium into the environment. The initiative was in response to the detection of tritium in water samples taken related to leaks at the Braidwood, Byron and Dresden nuclear generating stations in Illinois. On September 28, 2006, Generation announced the final results of the assessment, concluding that no active leaks had been identified at any of Generations 11 nuclear plants and no detectable tritium had been identified beyond any of the plants boundaries other than from permitted discharges, with the exception of Braidwood where past accidental tritiated water spills have been identified and state approved cleanup work continues. The assessment further concluded that none of the tritium concentrations identified in the assessment pose a health or safety threat to the public or to Generations employees or contractors. 64 Table of Contents Outlook for 2007 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell electricity beginning in 2007 is set below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there will be material adverse consequences to ComEd, including possible bankruptcy, which could result in material adverse consequences to Exelon and, in the event of a ComEd bankruptcy filing, possibly material adverse consequences to Generation. The ICCs unanimous approval of the reverse auction process, barring any adverse decision in the pending appeals or change in law, should provide ComEd with stability and greater certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to ComEds customers beginning in 2007 through a transparent market mechanism in the reverse auction competitive bidding process. PECO was subject to electric rate caps on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 and is subject to caps on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. PECOs transmission and distribution rates will continue in effect until PECO files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. There are no current proceedings to do so. PECO is, however, involved in proceedings involving annual changes in its electric and gas universal service fund cost charges, its electric CTC/intangible transition charge reconciliation mechanism, and its purchased gas cost rate, all of which are designed to fully recover PECOs applicable costs on a dollar for dollar basis. Effective January 1, 2007, in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC, PECO implemented an electric generation rate increase that will result in approximately $190 million of additional operating revenues in 2007 as compared to 2006 and a corresponding increase in purchased power from affiliate, in accordance with PECOs PPA with Generation, with no resulting impact on pre tax operating income. The impact of this rate increase on Exelon will be an increase in operating revenues and pre tax operating income of approximately $190 million. The impact on Generation will be an increase in operating revenues from affiliates and pre tax operating income of approximately $190 million. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity trading portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2007 and 2008. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. The PPA between Generation and PECO expires at the end of 2010. Current market prices for electricity have increased significantly over the past few years due to the rise in natural gas and fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates are below current wholesale energy market prices and Generations margins on sales in excess of ComEds and PECOs requirements have improved historically due to its significant capacity of low cost nuclear generating facilities. Generations ability to maintain those margins will depend on future fossil fuel prices and its ability to obtain high capacity factors at its nuclear plants. Federal and state governing bodies have begun to introduce, and in some cases approve, legislation mandating the future use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal. The extent of the use of these renewable and alternative fuel sources varies by state and could change. The future requirement to use these renewable and alternative fuel sources for some portion of ComEds and PECOs distribution sales could result in increased fuel costs and capital expenditures. 65 Table of Contents Select northeast and mid Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate carbon emissions from fossil fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and or state legislation to regulate carbon emissions could occur in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs in further limiting the emissions from certain of its fossil fuel fired facilities or in procuring emission allowance credits issued by various governing bodies. However, Exelon may benefit from stricter emission standards due to its significant nuclear capacity, which is not anticipated to be affected by the proposed emission standards. Exelon anticipates that it will be subject to the ongoing pressures of rising operating expenses due to increases in costs such as medical benefits and rising payroll costs due to inflation. Also, Exelon will continue to incur significant capital costs associated with its commitment to produce and deliver energy reliably to its customers. Increasing capital costs may include the price of uranium which fuels the nuclear facilities and continued capital investment in Exelons aging distribution infrastructure and generating facilities. Exelon is determined to operate its businesses responsibly and to appropriately manage its operating and capital costs while serving its customers and producing value for its shareholders. Exelon pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize earnings and cash flows. On September 29, 2006, Generation notified the NRC that Generation will begin the application process for a combined construction and operating license that would allow for the possible construction of a new nuclear plant at an as yet unnamed location in Texas. The filing of the letter with the NRC launches a process that preserves for Exelon the option to develop a new nuclear plant in Texas without immediately committing to the full project. Exelon has not decided to build a new nuclear plant. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision to build is made are a permanent solution to spent nuclear fuel disposal, broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant and assurances that a new plant using new technology can be financially successful. Exelon expects to submit the application to the NRC for the combined construction and operating license in 2008. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Nuclear Decommissioning (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). 66 Table of Contents SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate the fair value of its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that fair value, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at a minimum of every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above, which were prepared using year of estimate amounts, through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on a periodic basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternative and timing scenarios. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% or minus 15% over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a low level radioactive waste landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposal. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation recorded with a corresponding change to the asset retirement cost (ARC) asset. However, if an update to an ARO results in a decrease, and that unit does not have an underlying ARC, that change in the ARO may be recognized in current period earnings. Changes in the assumptions could affect future updates to the decommissioning obligation. For example, the 20 year average cost escalation rates used in the latest ARO calculation were approximately 3% to 4%. A uniform increase in these escalation rates of 25 basis points would increase the total ARO recorded by Exelon by approximately 9% or more than $300 million. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a periodic basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Conditional ARO (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) As of December 31, 2005, the Registrants adopted FIN 47. FIN 47 clarified that a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a long lived asset whose timing and or method of settlement are 67 Table of Contents conditional on a future event is within the scope of SFAS No. 143. Under FIN 47, the Registrants are required to record a conditional ARO at its estimated fair value if that fair value can be reasonably estimated. The adoption of FIN 47 required the Registrants to update an existing inventory, originally created for the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and to determine which, if any, of the conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated. The ability to reasonably estimate a conditional ARO was a matter of management judgment, based upon managements ability to estimate a settlement date or range of settlement dates, a method or potential method of settlement and probabilities associated with the potential dates and methods of settlement of its conditional AROs. In determining whether their conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated, management considered the Registrants past practices, industry practices, managements intent and the estimated economic lives of the assets. The fair values of the conditional AROs were then estimated using an expected present value technique. Additionally, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assessed the likelihood of recovering these obligations from customers which led to the recognition of regulatory assets. Changes in managements assumptions regarding settlement dates, settlement methods, assigned probabilities or recovery mechanisms could have a material effect on the liabilities recorded by each Registrant and the associated regulatory assets recorded at Exelon, ComEd and PECO. The liabilities associated with conditional AROs will be adjusted on a periodic basis due to the passage of time, new laws and regulations and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimates of undiscounted cash flows. These adjustments could have a significant impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Operations of the Registrants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of FIN 47, see Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill which relates to the acquisition of ComEd under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill might be impaired, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires managements judgments, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Due to the significant negative impact of the ICCs July 26, 2006 order in ComEds Rate Case to the future cash flows and value of ComEd, an interim impairment assessment was completed during the third quarter of 2006. Based on the results of ComEds interim goodwill impairment analysis, Exelon and ComEd recorded an impairment charge of $776 million associated with the write off of the goodwill. Exelon and ComEd performed their annual goodwill impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of 2006 and determined that goodwill was not further impaired. Future developments relating to ComEds ongoing regulatory and or legislative items could also be relevant to future goodwill impairment analyses and may lead to further impairments, which could be material. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Rate Case. In the assessments, Exelon and ComEd estimated the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. Additionally, ComEds estimate of its fair value was compared to a fair value estimate determined by a third party valuation firm. Changes in assumptions regarding variables, including post 2006 rate regulatory structure, ComEds capital structure, changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, operating and 68 Table of Contents capital expenditure requirements and other factors, or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of 10% in ComEds expected discounted cash flows would result in additional impairment for both ComEd and Exelon of approximately $800 million. An additional impairment would require Exelon and ComEd to further reduce both goodwill and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Investments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO had investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2006. The Registrants consider investments to be impaired when a decline in fair value below cost is judged to be other than temporary. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, the Registrants evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, as well as their intent and ability to hold the investment. The Registrants may also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee when reviewing an investment for impairment. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the investment and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Beginning in 2006, and in connection with the issuance of FASB Staff Position FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (FSP 115 1), Generation considers all nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments in an unrealized loss position to be other than temporarily impaired. As a result of certain NRC restrictions, Generation is unable to demonstrate its ability and intent to hold the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments through a recovery period and, accordingly, recognizes any unrealized holding losses immediately. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of property, plant and equipment recorded and the depreciation charged to the financial statements. Historically, Generation has extended the estimated service lives of the nuclear fuel generating facilities based upon Generations intent to apply for license renewals for these facilities. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that 69 Table of Contents would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. The impact of the new rates was not material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for essentially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and BSC employees, except for those employees of Generations wholly owned subsidiary, AmerGen, who participate in the separate AmerGen sposored defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement welfare benefit plan. See Note 14 Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon and AmerGen utilize assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the remaining service period, rate of compensation increases and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs, in order to measure the plan obligations and costs to be recognized related to these plans. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.00% for 2006, 2005, and 2004. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 8.15% and 8.30% in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and a range of 8.33% to 8.35% in 2004. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The average remaining service period of defined pension plan participants was 13.5 years, 13.8 years and 15.1 years for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 7.3 years, 7.5 years and 8.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 10.3 years, 10.9 years and 11.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rate for determining the pension benefit obligations was 5.90%, 5.60% and 5.75% at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rate for determining the other postretirement benefit obligations was 5.85%, 5.60% and 5.75% at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rate at December 31, 2004 was selected by reference to the Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index adjusted to reflect the duration of expected future cash flows for pension and other postretirement benefit payments. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the discount rate was 70 Table of Contents determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of more than 400 Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon will use a discount rate and EROA of 5.90% and 8.75%, respectively, for estimating its 2007 pension costs. Additionally, Exelon will use a discount rate and expected return on plan assets of 5.85% and 7.87%, respectively, for estimating its 2007 other postretirement benefit costs. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2006 Impact on Pension Liability at December 31, 2006 Impact on 2007 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 720 $ 720 $ 57 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 47 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2006 Impact on Postretirement Benefit Liability at December 31, 2006 Impact on 2007 Postretirement Benefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 225 $ 225 $ 26 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 7 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens postretirement benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2006 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2006 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2006 Impact on 2006 TotalService and Interest CostComponents Increase assumed health care cost trend by 1% $ 45 $ 418 Decrease assumed health care cost trend by 1% (37 ) (345 ) Extending the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2012 to 2017 would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2006 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2006 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on OtherPostretirement Benefit Obligation atDecember 31, 2006 Impact on2006 Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2012 to 2017 $ 234 $ 22 71 Table of Contents The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2006, the income statement gain could have been as much as $2.3 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that ComEd could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Similarly, at December 31, 2006, the income statement charge could have been as much as $3.7 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that PECO could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. In that event, Exelon would record an income statement gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and or PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against other comprehensive income of up to $1.4 billion (before taxes) related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which would be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 4, 8 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction where they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd, PECO) The Registrants may enter into derivatives to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation utilizes derivatives with respect to energy transactions to the utilization of its available generating capability and the supply of wholesale energy to its affiliates. Generation 72 Table of Contents also utilizes energy option contracts and energy financial swap arrangements to limit the market price risk exposure associated with forward energy commodity prices. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for trading purposes. ComEd has derivatives related to one wholesale contract and certain other contracts to manage the market price exposures to several wholesale contracts that extend into 2007, which is beyond the expiration of ComEds PPA with Generation. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133). Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Derivatives recorded at fair value on the balance sheet are presented as current or noncurrent mark to market derivative assets or liabilities. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction occur. Amounts recorded in earnings are included in revenue, purchased power or fuel in the consolidated statements of income. Cash inflows and outflows related to derivative instruments are included as a component of operating, investing or financing cash flows in the statement of cash flows, depending on the underlying nature of the Registrants hedged items. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon the assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery of the underlying item. If it was determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren procurement auctions. As a result of the expiration of Generations PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006 and the results of the auctions, beginning in 2007, Generation will sell more power through bilateral agreements with other new and existing counterparties. ComEd also entered into agreements with thirteen other suppliers as part of the auction. Generations and ComEds agreements meet the normal purchases and normal sales exception. Energy Contracts. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When 73 Table of Contents external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Normal Operations and Hedging Activities for further information regarding sensitivity analysis related to market price exposure. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants use external dealer prices and or internal valuation models that utilize assumptions of available market pricing curves. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on the liabilities and expenses in their financial statements. Taxation The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2006 reflect the probable expected outcome of pending tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements a replacement of FASB Concepts Statement No. 3 (incorporating an amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2), the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. 74 Table of Contents The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon and Generation have a reserve for asbestos related bodily injury claims for open claims presented to Generation as of December 31, 2006 and for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030 based on actuarial assumptions and analysis. Exelons and Generations management each determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims beyond 2030 based on the historical claims data available and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating the future losses, management and the actuaries made various assumptions, including but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that related to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelon plans to obtain annual updates of the estimate of future losses. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon historical experience and third party actuarial studies. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. Management cautions, however, that these estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Severance Accounting (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with the Registrants and compensation level. The Registrants accrue severance benefits that are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in estimating severance charges is the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. The Registrants base their estimates on their current plans and ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate their businesses. The Registrants may incur further severance costs if they identify additional positions to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Stock Based Compensation Cost (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) On January 1, 2006, Exelon adopted SFAS No. 123 R, which requires that compensation cost relating to share based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. That cost is measured on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments at the date of grant and amortized over the vesting period. The fair value of stock options on the date of grant is estimated using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model, which requires assumptions such as dividends yield, expected volatility, risk free interest rate, expected life and forfeiture rate. The fair value of performance share awards granted in 2006 was estimated using historical data for the previous two plan years and a Monte Carlo simulation model for the current plan year, which requires assumptions regarding Exelons 75 Table of Contents total shareholder return relative to certain stock market indices and the stock beta and volatility of Exelons common stock and all stocks represented in these indices. If the actual results of the cash settled performance share awards differ significantly from the estimates, the Consolidated Financial Statements could be materially affected. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Generations revenue from service agreements, such as the nuclear Operating Service Agreement with PSEG Nuclear, is dependent upon when the services are rendered. Service agreements representing a cost recovery arrangement are presented gross within revenues for the amounts due from the party receiving the service, and the costs associated with providing the service are presented within operating and maintenance expenses. 76 Table of Contents Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Results of Operations Exelon 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 298 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 5,232 5,670 438 Operating and maintenance 3,868 3,694 (174 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 1,487 1,334 (153 ) Taxes other than income 771 728 (43 ) Total operating expenses 12,134 12,633 499 Operating income 3,521 2,724 797 Other income and deductions Interest expense (616 ) (513 ) (103 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (264 ) (316 ) 52 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (111 ) (134 ) 23 Other, net 266 134 132 Total other income and deductions (725 ) (829 ) 104 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,796 1,895 901 Income taxes 1,206 944 (262 ) Income from continuing operations 1,590 951 639 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 2 14 (12 ) Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,592 965 627 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 42 Net income $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 0.99 Net Income. Exelons net income for 2006 reflects higher realized prices on market sales and increased nuclear output at Generation; a one time benefit of approximately $158 million to recover previously incurred severance costs approved by the December 2006 amended ICC rate order; a one time benefit of approximately $130 million to recover certain costs approved by the July 2006 ICC rate order; a decrease in Generations nuclear ARO resulting from changes in managements assessment of the probabilities associated with the anticipated timing of cash flows to decommission primarily AmerGen nuclear plants; unrealized mark to market gains; increased electric revenues at PECO associated with certain authorized rate increases; and increased kWh deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, reflecting load growth at ComEd and PECO. These increases were partially offset by a $776 million impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill; unfavorable weather conditions in both the ComEd and PECO service territories; a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased severance and severance related charges; losses from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities; increased depreciation and amortization expense, including CTC amortization at PECO; and higher operating and maintenance expenses including increased costs associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory, increased nuclear refueling outage costs, increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R, and the impacts of 77 Table of Contents inflation. Exelons net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1.2 billion associated with ComEds goodwill; unrealized mark to market losses; losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47; favorable tax settlements at Generation and PECO; and gains realized on AmerGens decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation due to an increase in market prices; higher nuclear output; electric rate increases at PECO; and higher kWh deliveries at ComEd and PECO, excluding the effects of weather. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to lower volumes of power purchased in the market and decreased fossil generation, partially offset by overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply in 2006 compared to 22% for 2005. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased nuclear refueling outage costs; increased severance and severance related charges; increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R; and the impacts from inflation. These increases were partially offset by a one time benefit of $201 million to recover certain costs approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order and the ICCs December 2006 amended rate order; the impact of the reduction in Generations estimated nuclear asset retirement obligation; mark to market gains associated with Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities; and a charge for a reserve recorded by Generation in 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2006, ComEd recorded a $776 million impairment charge associated with its goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. During 2005, in connection with the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment, ComEd recorded a $1.2 billion charge. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to additional CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to a reduction in 2005 of previously established real estate tax reserves at PECO and Generation and a net increase in utility revenue taxes at ComEd and PECO in 2006, partially offset by favorable state franchise tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects increased interest expense associated with the debt issued in 2005 to fund Exelons voluntary pension contribution; higher interest rates on variable rate debt outstanding; higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for pre 1983 spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE; an interest payment to the IRS associated with the settlement of a tax matter at Generation; and a one time benefit of $87 million approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order to recover previously incurred debt expenses to retire debt early . Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 43.1% for 2006 compared to 49.8% for 2005. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income 78 Table of Contents tax rate from continuing operations by 9.7% and 22.3% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. The results of Sithe are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $12 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2006 and 2005 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 294 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (142 ) (2 ) (140 ) Total $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 639 (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,128 $ 279 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 965 $ 627 (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 79 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 ComEd (112 ) (685 ) 573 PECO 441 517 (76 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 3,978 4,482 504 Operating and maintenance 2,305 2,288 (17 ) Depreciation and amortization 279 254 (25 ) Taxes other than income 185 170 (15 ) Total operating expenses 6,747 7,194 447 Operating income 2,396 1,852 544 Other income and deductions Interest expense (159 ) (128 ) (31 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (1 ) (8 ) Other, net 41 95 (54 ) Total other income and deductions (127 ) (34 ) (93 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,269 1,818 451 Income taxes 866 709 (157 ) Income from continuing operations 1,403 1,109 294 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income from discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,407 1,128 279 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 30 Net income $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 Net Income. Generations net income for 2006 compared to 2005 increased due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense, higher depreciation expense, higher interest expense and lower other income. The increase in Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense was due to realized revenues associated with forward sales contracts entered into in prior periods which were recognized at higher prices, combined with lower purchased power and fuel expense due to the impact of higher 80 Table of Contents nuclear output. Unlike the energy delivery business, the effects of unusually warm or cold weather on Generation depend on the nature of its market position at the time of the unusual weather. Generations net income for 2006 and 2005 reflects income from discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (after tax), respectively. Operating Revenues. For 2006 and 2005, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,674 $ 4,775 $ (101 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,640 3,341 299 8.9 % Total energy sales revenue 8,314 8,116 198 2.4 % Retail gas sales 540 613 (73 ) (11.9 )% Trading portfolio 14 17 (3 ) (17.6 )% Other revenue (a) 275 300 (25 ) (8.3 )% Total revenue $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 1.1 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales, operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. Sales (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 119,354 121,961 (2,607 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 71,326 72,376 (1,050 ) (1.5 )% Total sales 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% Trading volumes of 31,692 GWhs and 26,924 GWhs for 2006 and 2005, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates decreased $101 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $95 million decrease from lower electric sales volume, as well as a net $6 million decrease resulting from lower prices. In the ComEd territories, lower volumes resulted in a $115 million decrease in revenues as a result of lower demand resulting from milder weather year over year. In addition, price decreases totaling $128 million were a result of lower peak prices under the ComEd PPA. In the PECO territories, the higher volumes resulted in increased revenues of $20 million due to higher usage. The favorable price variance of $122 million was primarily the result of the scheduled PAPUC approved generation rate increase as well as to a lesser degree a change in the mix of average pricing related to the PPA with PECO. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase will take effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will have a favorable effect on Generations operating income in future years. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Price $ 353 Volume (54 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 299 81 Table of Contents Wholesale and retail sales increased $299 million due to an increase in realized revenues associated with forward sales entered into in prior periods, which were recognized at higher prices for the year ended December 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, offset by a reduction in volumes sold into the market as a result of lower supply. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales decreased $73 million primarily due to lower volumes for 2006 compared to 2005, resulting in a $69 million decrease. Additionally, there was a decrease of $4 million due to lower realized prices for 2006 compared to 2005. Other revenues. The decrease in 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in fossil fuel sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,610 137,936 1,674 1.2 % Purchases non trading portfolio 38,297 42,623 (4,326 ) (10.1 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 12,773 13,778 (1,005 ) (7.3 )% Total supply 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: (in millions) Price Volume Increase (Decrease) Purchased power costs $ (81 ) $ (319 ) $ (400 ) Generation costs 38 4 42 Fuel resale costs 34 (65 ) (31 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. (115 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (504 ) n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation experienced a decrease of $319 million due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market as a result of a lower demand from affiliates. Additionally, overall lower prices paid for purchased power in 2006 compared to 2005 resulted in a $81 million decrease. Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel costs for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increased prices related to nuclear and fossil fuel generation, resulting in a $38 million increase. Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs in 2006 compared to 2005 were a result of a $65 million decrease in the retail gas business resulting from lower volumes, partially offset by overall higher prices paid for gas. Mark to market. Mark to market gains on power derivative activities were $180 million in 2006 compared to losses of $12 million in 2005. Mark to market losses on fuel derivative activities were $77 million in 2006 compared to zero in 2005. 82 Table of Contents Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2006 and 2005 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2006 2005 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 39.16 $ 39.15 n.m. Wholesale and retail electric sales 51.03 46.16 10.6 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 43.60 41.76 4.4 % Average electric supply cost (a) excluding the trading portfolio $ 18.02 $ 20.11 (10.4 )% Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 25.58 $ 21.65 18.2 % (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. n.m. Not meaningful Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2006 2005 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.85 $ 13.03 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. Although total refueling outage days increased during 2006 compared to 2005, the nuclear fleet capacity factor for the Generation operating nuclear fleet increased due to fewer non refueling outage days during 2006 compared to 2005. For 2006 and 2005, non refueling outage days totaled 71 and 112, respectively, and refueling outage days totaled 237 and 217, respectively. Higher costs for nuclear fuel, costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days, higher costs for refueling outage inspection and maintenance activities, costs for the tritium related expenses, an NRC fee increase, and inflationary cost increases for normal plant operations and maintenance offset the higher number of MWhs generated resulting in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2006 as compared to 2005. There were ten planned refueling outages and sixteen non refueling outages during 2006 compared to nine planned refueling outages and twenty five non refueling outages during 2005 at the Generation operated nuclear stations. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Pension, payroll and benefit costs $ 153 Contractor expenses 22 Nuclear refueling outage costs including the co owned Salem plant 19 NRC fees 11 Godley contribution 11 Tritium related expense 9 Reduction in ARO (a) (149 ) 2005 accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (b) (43 ) 2005 co owner settlement with PSEG related to postretirement benefits (17 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 17 (a) For further discussion, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) For further discussion, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 83 Table of Contents The $17 million increase in operating and maintenance expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a $153 million increase in various payroll related expenses, including increased stock based compensation expense of $41 million primarily as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R as of January 1, 2006 and increased direct and allocated costs related to payroll, severance, pension and other postretirement benefits, a $22 million period over period increase in contractor costs, primarily related to staff augmentation and recurring maintenance work at Nuclear and Power, a $19 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days during 2006 as compared to 2005, and higher costs for inspection and maintenance activities. Additionally, on December 22, 2006, as a gesture of goodwill and corporate citizenship, Generation contributed approximately $11 million into an escrow account to assist the Godley Public Water District with the installation of a new public drinking water system for the Village of Godley. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 was a result of recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income incurred during 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to increasing the property tax reserve for 2006 property taxes for Byron, Clinton and Dresden, higher payroll related taxes which were the result of higher payroll costs for 2006 and a reduction recorded in 2005 of a previously established real estate reserve associated with the settlement over the TMI real estate assessment. The increases were partially offset by a sales and use tax reserve recorded during the third quarter of 2005 and a gas revenue tax adjustment recorded during the fourth quarter of 2005. Interest Expense. The increase in interest expense during 2006 as compared to 2005 was attributable to higher variable interest rates on debt outstanding, higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE and an interest payment made to the IRS in settlement of a tax matter. Other, Net. The decrease in other income in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to gains realized in the second quarter of 2005 totaling $36 million related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants due to changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 38.2% for 2006 compared to 39.0% for 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe have been presented as discontinued operations within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Generations net income in 2006 and 2005 reflects a gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (both after tax), respectively. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $15 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the second quarter of 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications, accrued interest and collections on receivables arising from the sale of Sithe that had been fully reserved. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 84 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 3,292 3,520 228 Operating and maintenance 745 833 88 Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 430 413 (17 ) Taxes other than income 303 303 Total operating expense 5,546 6,276 730 Operating income (loss) 555 (12 ) 567 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (308 ) (291 ) (17 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (10 ) (14 ) 4 Other, net 96 4 92 Total other income and deductions (222 ) (301 ) 79 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 333 (313 ) 646 Income taxes 445 363 (82 ) Loss before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (112 ) (676 ) 564 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) 9 Net loss $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 573 Net Loss. ComEds decreased net loss in 2006 compared to 2005 was driven by a smaller impairment of goodwill in 2006, lower purchased power expense and one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July 2006 and December 2006 ICC rate orders as more fully described below, partially offset by lower operating revenues. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Weather $ (226 ) Customer choice (67 ) Volume 84 Rate changes and mix 23 Retail revenue (186 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 28 Mark to market contracts (5 ) Other revenues 23 Decrease in operating revenues $ (163 ) Weather. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months 85 Table of Contents and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather in non summer months reduces demand. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 20% and 8% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2006, one competitive electric generation supplier had been granted approval to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, they are not currently supplying electricity to any residential customers. For 2006 and 2005, 23% and 21%, respectively, of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. Most of the customers previously receiving energy under the PPO are now electing either to buy their power from a competitive electric generation supplier or from ComEd under bundled rates. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 20,787 19,310 Percentage of total retail deliveries 23 % 21 % Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 20,300 21,300 Percentage of total retail customers (b ) (b ) Volume (GWhs) (a) 25,521 30,905 Percentage of total retail deliveries 28 % 33 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Volume. Revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers. Rate changes and mix. The increase in revenue related to rate and mix changes represents differences in year over year consumption between various customer classes offset by a decline in the CTC paid by customers of competitive electric generation suppliers due to the increase in market energy prices. The average rate paid by various customers is dependent on the amount and time of day that the power is consumed. Changes in customer consumption patterns, including increased usage, can result in an overall decrease in the average rate even though the tariff or rate schedule remains unchanged. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Starting in January 2007, ComEd began collecting revenues consistent with the approved ICC orders in the Procurement Case and the Rate Case. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. The wholesale and miscellaneous revenues increase primarily reflects an increase in transmission revenue reflecting increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Mark to market contracts. Mark to market contracts primarily reflect a mark to market loss associated with one wholesale contract that had previously been recorded as a normal sale under SFAS No. 133 in 2005. This contract expires in December 2007. 86 Table of Contents Purchased Power Expense. The changes in purchased power expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Prices $ (135 ) Weather (111 ) Customer choice (56 ) PJM transmission (6 ) Volume 42 SECA rates 38 Decrease in purchased power expense $ (228 ) Prices. Purchased power decreased due to the decrease in contracted energy prices under the PPA that ComEd had with Generation. The PPA contract was entered into in March 2004 and reflected forward power prices in existence at that time. The PPA terminated at the end of 2006 and was replaced with the reverse auction process in 2007, which was approved by the ICC. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Weather. The decrease in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Customer choice. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. PJM transmission. The decrease in PJM transmission expense reflects a decrease in ancillary charges, partially offset by increased peak demand and consumption by ComEd supplied customers. Volume. The amount of purchased power attributable to volume increased as a result of increased usage by ComEd supplied customers on a weather normalized basis versus the same period in 2005. SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. These charges were being collected subject to refund as they are being disputed. As a result of current events related to SECA disputes, during the first quarter of 2006, ComEd increased its reserve for amounts to be refunded. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. As ComEd was a net collector of SECA charges, the 2005 purchased power expense, which reflected a full year of SECA collections, was lower than 2006, which reflected only three months of SECA collections, due to the expiration of SECA charges on March 31, 2006. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the SECA rates. 87 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ (201 ) Fringe benefits (b) 43 Severance related expenses 17 Wages and salaries 17 Customers Affordable Reliable Energy (CARE) program (c) 9 Environmental costs 5 Rent and lease expense 5 Storm costs 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Other 11 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (88 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC order on rehearing, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses, including MGP costs, severance costs and procurement case costs. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits, including increased stock based compensation expense of $24 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006 and increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs of $14 million. (c) See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2006 annual goodwill impairment assessment (performed in the fourth quarter) resulted in no additional impairment. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd had approximately $2.7 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds PPA with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 12 Other amortization expense 5 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 17 88 Table of Contents In 2007, ComEds amortization will reflect the elimination of the recoverable transition costs regulatory asset and the initial amortization of the various regulatory assets authorized by the ICC in its July and December 2006 orders. See Notes 4, 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income remained constant in 2006 compared to 2005. Interest Expense, Net. The increase in interest expense, net in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily resulted from higher debt balances and higher interest rates. In 2007, ComEds interest expense, net will reflect the initial amortization of the regulatory asset related to the early debt retirement costs authorized by the ICC in its July 2006 order. See Notes 4, 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 87 Loss on settlement of 2005 cash flow swaps 15 Sale of receivable in 2005 (3 ) Loss on disposition of assets and investments, net (3 ) Other (4 ) Increase in other, net $ 92 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded a one time benefit associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. See Notes 4, 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 133.6% and (116.0)% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income tax rate by 81.6% in 2006 and decreased the effective income tax rate by 135.0% in 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 89 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 28,330 30,042 (1,712 ) (5.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 24,122 21,378 2,744 12.8 % Large commercial & industrial 10,336 7,904 2,432 30.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,254 2,133 121 5.7 % Total full service 65,042 61,457 3,585 5.8 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 2,475 5,591 (3,116 ) (55.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 2,259 6,004 (3,745 ) (62.4 )% 4,734 11,595 (6,861 ) (59.2 )% Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,505 5,677 (172 ) (3.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 15,282 13,633 1,649 12.1 % 20,787 19,310 1,477 7.6 % Total PPO and delivery only 25,521 30,905 (5,384 ) (17.4 )% Total retail deliveries 90,563 92,362 (1,799 ) (1.9 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,453 $ 2,584 $ (131 ) (5.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,882 1,671 211 12.6 % Large commercial & industrial 563 408 155 38.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 137 132 5 3.8 % Total full service 5,035 4,795 240 5.0 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 178 385 (207 ) (53.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 137 345 (208 ) (60.3 )% 315 730 (415 ) (56.8 )% Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 85 95 (10 ) (10.5 )% Large commercial & industrial 155 156 (1 ) (0.6 )% 240 251 (11 ) (4.4 )% Total PPO and delivery only 555 981 (426 ) (43.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 5,590 5,776 (186 ) (3.2 )% Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 516 488 28 5.7 % Mark to market contracts (5 ) (5 ) n.m. Total operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) (2.6 )% (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. 90 Table of Contents (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC through December 2006. (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC through December 2006. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. n.m. Not meaningful Results of Operations PECO 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 258 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 2,702 2,515 (187 ) Operating and maintenance 628 549 (79 ) Depreciation and amortization 710 566 (144 ) Taxes other than income 262 231 (31 ) Total operating expense 4,302 3,861 (441 ) Operating income 866 1,049 (183 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (266 ) (279 ) 13 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (16 ) 7 Other, net 30 13 17 Total other income and deductions (245 ) (282 ) 37 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 621 767 (146 ) Income taxes 180 247 67 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 441 520 (79 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) 3 Net income 441 517 (76 ) Preferred stock dividends 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 437 $ 513 $ (76 ) Net Income. PECOs net income in 2006 decreased primarily due to higher CTC amortization and higher operating and maintenance expense, which reflected higher storm costs. Partially offsetting these factors were higher revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense. Higher net revenues reflected certain authorized electric rate increases, including a scheduled CTC rate increase, partially offset by lower net electric and gas revenues as a result of unfavorable weather relative to the prior year. The increases in CTC amortization expense and CTC rates were in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC. The increase in CTC amortization expense exceeded the increase in CTC revenues. 91 Table of Contents Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Rate increases $ 237 $ 127 $ 364 Customer choice 62 62 Unbilled revenue change in estimate 35 35 Volume 20 (10 ) 10 Weather (91 ) (130 ) (221 ) Other rate changes and mix (10 ) (10 ) Retail revenue 253 (13 ) 240 Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 26 (8 ) 18 Increase (decrease) in operating revenues $ 279 $ (21 ) $ 258 Rate increases. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases reflects scheduled CTC and generation rate increases in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC and the elimination of the aggregate $200 million electric distribution rate reductions over the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005 (approximately $40 million in 2005) related to the PAPUCs approval of the merger between PECO and ComEd. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase took effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will not affect operating income as PECO will incur corresponding and offsetting purchased power expenses under its PPA with Generation. The increase in gas revenues was due to net increases in rates through PAPUC approved quarterly changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was 30% higher than the average rate for the same period in 2005. While PECOs average purchased gas cost rate was higher in 2006 compared to 2005, quarterly changes to purchased gas cost rates since March 1, 2006 have resulted in decreases to the rates, with the September 1, 2006 and December 1, 2006 rate decreases resulting in lower rates in 2006 compared to comparable periods in 2005. This trend will continue into the first quarter of 2007, during the peak of PECOs winter heating season, as first quarter 2007 rates will be significantly lower than first quarter 2006 rates. Customer choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. For 2006 and 2005, 2% and 5%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 34,400 44,500 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 3 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 767 2,094 Percentage of total retail deliveries 2 % 5 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). 92 Table of Contents The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice reflected customers from all customer classes returning to PECO as their electric supplier as a result of rising wholesale energy prices and a number of competitive electric generation suppliers exiting the market during 2005 and 2006. Unbilled revenue change in estimate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, PECO recorded a $35 million increase to unbilled electric revenues associated with a change in estimate in the amount of revenue recognized, although unbilled, at the end of 2006. As discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, the nature of the unbilled revenue calculation is inherently an estimation process. As a result of Exelons integration efforts associated with its then pending merger with PSEG, analyses received from a third party consultant, and PECOs implementation of a new customer information management system in the fourth quarter 2006, PECO received new information with which to better analyze the data underlying its unbilled revenue calculation. This amount is partially offset by a $14 million increase in purchased power expense as noted below. Volume. The increase in electric revenues was primarily as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, primarily due to an increased number of customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating and cooling degree days were 18% and 15% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Other rate changes and mix. The decrease in electric revenues attributable to other rate changes and mix was primarily due to increased large commercial and industrial sales, which are billed at lower rates relative to other customer classes, and lower rates for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were lower in the latter part of 2006 relative to 2005. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. The increase in electric revenues was primarily due to increased PJM transmission revenue and increased sales of energy into the PJM spot market. If PECOs energy needs are less than the daily amount scheduled, the excess is sold into the PJM spot market. Revenues from these sales are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas revenues was due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Prices $ 94 $ 127 $ 221 Customer choice 62 62 PJM transmission 31 31 Unbilled revenue change in estimate 14 14 Weather (39 ) (107 ) (146 ) Volume 4 (13 ) (9 ) Other 20 (6 ) 14 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 186 $ 1 $ 187 93 Table of Contents Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased $87 million corresponding to the increase in electric revenues which was attributable to the scheduled PAPUC approved generation rate increase. In addition, PECOs purchased power expense increased $7 million due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher average gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to customers from all customer classes returning to PECO as their electric supplier, primarily as a result of rising wholesale energy prices and a number of competitive electric generation suppliers exiting the market during 2005 and 2006. PJM transmission. The increase in PJM transmission expense reflects increased peak demand and consumption by PECO supplied customers due to load growth as well as an increase in PECO supplied customers driven by more customers choosing PECO for supply due to competitive electric generation suppliers higher market prices. Unbilled revenue change in estimate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, PECO recorded a $14 million increase to purchased power associated with a change in estimate for unbilled electric revenue as the energy component of the estimate change is passed onto Generation. Weather. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to lower demand as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Volume. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was primarily due to an increased number of customers. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Other. The increase in electric purchased power expense was primarily due to increased energy purchases in the PJM spot market. If PECOs energy needs are greater than the daily amount scheduled, the shortfall is secured through purchases in the PJM spot market. These additional costs are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas fuel expense was related to decreased off system sales. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Storm costs $ 36 Contractors (a) 14 Allowance for uncollectible accounts (b) 13 Fringe benefits (c) 11 Severance related expenses 6 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Injuries and damages (6 ) Environmental reserve (d) (4 ) Other 7 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 79 (a) Reflects higher professional fees, including $9 million associated with tax consulting, and various other increases. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding tax consulting fees. 94 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the following factors, all of which increased expense in 2006 as compared to 2005: (i) higher average accounts receivable balances in 2006 compared to 2005 resulting from increased revenues; (ii) changes in PAPUC approved regulations related to customer payment terms; and (iii) an increase in the number of low income customers participating in customer assistance programs, which allow for the forgiveness of certain receivables. (c) Reflects increased stock based compensation expense of $11 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006. (d) Represents a settlement related to one Superfund site in the first quarter of 2006. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) CTC amortization (a) $ 146 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (4 ) Other depreciation and amortization expense 2 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 144 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The new system was implemented in the fourth quarter 2006. Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 14 State franchise tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (b) 10 Real estate tax adjustment in 2005 (c) 6 Sales and use tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (2 ) Other 3 Increase in taxes other than income $ 31 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 of $7 million following settlements related to prior year tax assessments and the $17 million reduction of an accrual in 2005 related to prior years. (c) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in 2005 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to scheduled payments on long term debt owed to PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with the September 2006 issuance of $300 million First Mortgage Bonds, higher interest rates on variable rate long term debt and an increased amount of commercial paper outstanding at higher rates. Other, Net. The increase in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to interest income associated with an investment tax credit refund of $11 million and interest income associated with a research and development credit refund of $10 million in 2006. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of other, net. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement for additional information regarding the investment tax credit and research and development credit refunds. 95 Table of Contents Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in net interest expense of PETT due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 29.0% for 2006 compared to 32.2% for 2005. The lower effective tax rate in 2006 reflects investment tax credit and research and development credit refunds in 2006. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 12,796 13,135 (339 ) (2.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 7,818 7,263 555 7.6 % Large commercial & industrial 15,898 15,205 693 4.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 906 962 (56 ) (5.8 )% Total full service 37,418 36,565 853 2.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 61 334 (273 ) (81.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 671 1,257 (586 ) (46.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 35 503 (468 ) (93.0 )% Total delivery only 767 2,094 (1,327 ) (63.4 )% Total retail deliveries 38,185 38,659 (474 ) (1.2 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,780 $ 1,705 $ 75 4.4 % Small commercial & industrial 943 818 125 15.3 % Large commercial & industrial 1,286 1,173 113 9.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 83 84 (1 ) (1.2 )% Total full service 4,092 3,780 312 8.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 5 25 (20 ) (80.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 36 63 (27 ) (42.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 1 13 (12 ) (92.3 )% Total delivery only 42 101 (59 ) (58.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,134 3,881 253 6.5 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 238 212 26 12.3 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,372 $ 4,093 $ 279 6.8 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. 96 Table of Contents (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales 50,578 59,751 (9,173 ) (15.4 )% Transportation 25,527 25,310 217 0.9 % Total 76,105 85,061 (8,956 ) (10.5 )% Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 770 $ 783 $ (13 ) (1.7 )% Transportation 16 16 % Resales and other 10 18 (8 ) (44.4 )% Total gas revenue $ 796 $ 817 $ (21 ) (2.6 )% Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Results of OperationsExelon 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 1,224 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel expense 5,670 4,929 (741 ) Operating and maintenance expense 3,694 3,700 6 Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,334 1,295 (39 ) Taxes other than income 728 710 (18 ) Total operating expenses 12,633 10,634 (1,999 ) Operating income 2,724 3,499 (775 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (513 ) (471 ) (42 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (316 ) (357 ) 41 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (134 ) (154 ) 20 Other, net 134 60 74 Total other income and deductions (829 ) (922 ) 93 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,895 2,577 (682 ) Income taxes 944 713 (231 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 951 1,864 (913 ) Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 951 1,870 (919 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 14 (29 ) 43 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 965 1,841 (876 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 23 (65 ) Net income $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) Diluted earnings per share $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ (1.42 ) 97 Table of Contents Net Income. Net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1.2 billion associated with ComEds goodwill and losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47, partially offset by higher realized prices on market sales at Generation and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoption of FIN 46 R. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to increased revenues at ComEd and PECO and increased revenues from non affiliates at Generation. The increase in revenues at ComEd and PECO was primarily due to favorable weather conditions, an increase in the number of customers choosing ComEd or PECO as their electric supplier and higher transmission revenues, partially offset by decreased CTC collections at ComEd. The increase in revenues from non affiliates at Generation was primarily due to higher prices on energy sold in the market, partially offset by an increase in the percentage of energy produced and sold to ComEd and PECO and the sale of Boston Generating in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased primarily due to overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices, partially offset by the decrease in fuel expense due to the sale of Boston Generating in 2004, favorable mark to market adjustments related to non trading activities and the expiration of the PPA with Midwest Generation in 2004. Purchased power represented 22% of Generations total supply in 2005 compared to 24% in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a gain recorded in 2004 related to the DOE settlement, an increase to the reserve for the estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims that was recorded in 2005, higher costs associated with planned nuclear refueling outages, and increased costs related to an operating agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc. (formerly Sithe International, Inc.), partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and decreased severance and benefit expense. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2005, in connection with the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment, ComEd recorded a $1.2 billion charge. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service, additional amortization of the CTC at PECO and accelerated amortization of PECOs current customer information and billing system, partially offset by the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units in 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, operating and maintenance expense, impairment of goodwill and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was the result of increased taxes other than income, partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and reduced property tax expense. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects a 2004 charge at ComEd associated with the accelerated retirement of debt and the related reduction in interest expense from these debt retirements and increased realized gains related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, partially offset by increased interest expense on short term debt at Exelon, increased losses from Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities and an $85 million gain recorded in 2004 on the sale of Boston Generating. 98 Table of Contents Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 49.8% for 2005 compared to 27.7% for 2004. The goodwill impairment charge increased the effective income tax rate from continuing operations by 22.3% for 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises and AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe, certain Enterprises businesses and AllEnergy as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe. The results of Sithe and AllEnergy are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations increased by $43 million from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2005 and 2004 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,109 $ 657 $ 452 ComEd (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Other (a) (2 ) 82 (84 ) Total $ 951 $ 1,870 $ (919 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,128 $ 641 $ 487 ComEd (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Other (a) (7 ) 69 (76 ) Total $ 965 $ 1,841 $ (876 ) 99 Table of Contents (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 ComEd (685 ) 676 (1,361 ) PECO 517 455 62 Other (a) (7 ) 60 (67 ) Total $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 4,482 4,011 (471 ) Operating and maintenance 2,288 2,201 (87 ) Depreciation and amortization 254 286 32 Taxes other than income 170 166 (4 ) Total operating expenses 7,194 6,664 (530 ) Operating income 1,852 1,039 813 Other income and deductions Interest expense (128 ) (103 ) (25 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (1 ) (14 ) 13 Other, net 95 130 (35 ) Total other income and deductions (34 ) 13 (47 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,818 1,052 766 Income taxes 709 401 (308 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 1,109 651 458 Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 1,109 657 452 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (16 ) 16 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 19 19 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (16 ) 35 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,128 641 487 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 32 (62 ) Net income $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 100 Table of Contents Net Income. Generations net income in 2005 increased $425 million as compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and interest expense. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased $872 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. This increase was driven by the contractual increase in prices associated with Generations PPA with ComEd and higher average margins on wholesale market sales as higher spot market prices more than compensated for higher fuel prices and the impact of higher nuclear generation. Operating Revenues. For 2005 and 2004, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,775 $ 3,749 $ 1,026 27.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,341 3,227 114 3.5 % Total energy sales revenue 8,116 6,976 1,140 16.3 % Retail gas sales 613 448 165 36.8 % Trading portfolio 17 17 n.m. Other revenue (a) 300 279 21 7.5 % Total revenue $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 17.4 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales, operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. n.m. Not meaningful Sales (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 121,961 110,465 11,496 10.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 72,376 92,134 (19,758 ) (21.4 )% Total sales 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% Trading volumes of 26,924 GWhs and 24,001 GWhs for 2005 and 2004, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates increased $1,026 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. The increase in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $635 million increase from overall higher prices associated with Generations PPA with ComEd and a $391 million increase from higher electric sales volume. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement as of April 30, 2004 with ComEd, effective January 1, 2005, Generation began receiving overall higher prices from ComEd for its purchased power. The higher sales volumes to ComEd and PECO resulted from favorable weather conditions in the summer and winter periods in the ComEd and PECO service territories and an increase in the number of customers returning from competitive electric generation suppliers in 2005 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 879 Volume (526 ) Sale of Boston Generating (239 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 114 (a) Sales to Boston Generating of $9 million were included in other revenue for 2004. 101 Table of Contents Wholesale and retail sales increased $114 million due to an increase in market prices in 2005 compared to the prior year. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher fuel prices (e.g. oil and natural gas). The increase in price was partially offset by lower volumes of generation capacity sold to the market in 2005 as compared to 2004. Generation had less power to sell into the market as a result of higher demand for power sold to affiliates in 2005 and the expiration of its PPA with Midwest Generation in 2004. The remaining decrease in wholesale and retail sales of $239 million was due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales increased $165 million primarily due to significantly higher gas prices in the overall market. Trading portfolio. Trading portfolio income increased $17 million in 2005 compared to the prior year due to an increase in trading volumes. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Proprietary Trading Activities for further information. Other revenues. The increase in other revenues in 2005 was primarily due to an increase of $60 million associated with revenue from Generations operating services agreements with PSEG and Tamuin International, Inc. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $39 million related to lower fuel sales, a reduction in decommissioning revenue from ComEd and lower sales from tolling and gas management agreements. The increased revenue from the operating services agreements was substantially offset by a corresponding increase in Generations operating and maintenance expense. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 137,936 136,621 1,315 1.0 % Purchases non trading portfolio 42,623 48,968 (6,345 ) (13.0 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 13,778 17,010 (3,232 ) (19.0 )% Total supply 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Price Volume Increase (Decrease) Purchased power costs $ 654 $ (327 ) $ 327 Generation costs 198 16 214 Fuel resale costs 149 (2 ) 147 Sale of Boston Generating n.m. n.m. (226 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. 9 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 471 n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity (i.e., capacity, energy and fuel costs). Generation experienced overall higher realized prices for purchased power in 2005 compared to 2004, resulting in a $654 million increase. This was offset by a decrease of $327 million due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market as a result of more demand from affiliates. 102 Table of Contents Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel cost for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs for 2005 compared to 2004 due to overall energy market conditions resulting in higher prices for raw materials (e.g., oil, natural gas and coal) used in the production of electricity. Additionally, there was an increase of $16 million related to higher nuclear and fossil generation need to meet affiliates demand. Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchase and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs in 2005 as compared to 2004 consisted of overall higher realized gas prices, offset by a $2 million volume decrease in the gas retail business. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense associated with Boston Generating was due to the sale of the business in May 2004. Mark to market. Mark to market losses on power derivative activities were $12 million for 2005 compared to losses of $3 million for 2004. Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2005 and 2004 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2005 2004 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 39.15 $ 33.94 15.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 46.16 35.03 31.8 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 41.76 34.43 21.3 % Average electric supply cost (b) excluding the trading portfolio $ 20.11 $ 17.60 14.3 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 21.65 $ 16.83 28.6 % (a) The increase in $/MWh was due to higher prices in 2005 associated with Generations PPA with ComEd. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: 2005 2004 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.03 $ 12.43 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. Generations nuclear fleet capacity factor was the same in 2005 as 2004. Higher costs associated with the planned refuel outages and higher non outage operating costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2005 as compared to 2004. There were nine planned refueling outages and 25 non refueling outages in 2005 compared to nine planned refuel outages and 20 non refueling outages in 2004. During 2004, both Quad Cities units operated intermittently at Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. As of the third quarter of 2005, both of the Quad Cities units returned to EPU generation levels after extensive testing and load verification on new replacement steam dryers was completed. Near the end of 2005, the generation levels of both Quad Cities units were again reduced to pre EPU generation levels to address vibration related equipment issues not directly related to the steam dryers. The units will be brought back to full EPU generation levels after all issues are addressed to ensure safe and reliable operations at the EPU output levels which is expected to occur in 2006. 103 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs $ 78 DOE settlement in 2004 42 Tamuin International 44 Accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims 43 Nuclear operating services agreement 14 Pension, payroll and benefit costs (58 ) Boston Generating (62 ) Decommissioning related activity (38 ) Other 24 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 87 This net $87 million increase was attributable to the following: A $78 million increase in nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs due to an increase in nuclear maintenance costs of $44 million related to planned nuclear refueling outages for plants operated by Generation and the co owned Salem Generating Station, and increases in other nuclear operating and maintenance expenses of $34 million, primarily security and inflationary costs; A $42 million reimbursement in 2004 of costs incurred prior to 2004 for the storage of spent nuclear fuel associated with the DOE settlement agreement; A $44 million increase in expenses associated with Generations operating service agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc; The establishment of a $43 million liability in June 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (see further discussion in Note 17 to the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); and Costs of $14 million in 2005 associated with the Salem and Hope Creek Operating Services Agreement with PSEG, the reimbursement of which is included in other revenues. The increases in operating and maintenance expense described above were partially offset by lower payroll related expenses (a $58 million reduction), the elimination of $62 million in expenses at Boston Generating due to its sale in May 2004 and a $36 million reduction in the contractual obligation that Generation has to ComEd related to decommissioning obligations (which is included in the $38 million of decommissioning related activity in the table above). Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units of $36 million recorded in the third quarter of 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense as this asset was associated with retired nuclear units that do not have any remaining useful life. This decrease was partially offset by increased depreciation expense due to recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income for 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to a net increase in Generations reserves related to payroll taxes, sales and use taxes and other taxes other than income, partially offset by a reduction in taxes resulting from the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. Other, Net. The decrease in other income for 2005 as compared to the prior year was primarily due to the $85 million gain ($52 million, net of taxes) on the disposal of Boston Generating recorded in 104 Table of Contents May 2004, partially offset by gains of $36 million realized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 39.0% for 2005 compared to 38.1% for 2004. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Generation sold or wound down substantially all components of AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe and results of AllEnergy have been presented as discontinued operations for 2005 within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithes and AllEnergys results of operations as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe as discontinued operations. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. Results of OperationsComEd 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 Operating expenses Purchased power 3,520 2,588 (932 ) Operating and maintenance 833 897 64 Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 413 410 (3 ) Taxes other than income 303 291 (12 ) Total operating expense 6,276 4,186 (2,090 ) Operating income (loss) (12 ) 1,617 (1,629 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (291 ) (349 ) 58 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) (19 ) 5 Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) 130 Other, net 4 14 (10 ) Total other income and deductions (301 ) (484 ) 183 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (313 ) 1,133 (1,446 ) Income taxes 363 457 94 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) (9 ) Net income (loss) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ (1,361 ) 105 Table of Contents Net Loss. ComEds net loss in 2005 was driven by the impairment of goodwill and higher purchased power expense, partially offset by higher operating revenues due to favorable weather and due to the impacts of a 2004 charge associated with the accelerated retirement of long term debt and lower interest expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Weather $ 415 Customer choice 81 Rate changes and mix (66 ) Volume (3 ) Other (9 ) Retail revenue 418 PJM transmission 58 T&O / SECA rates (28 ) Miscellaneous revenues 13 Other revenues 43 Increase in operating revenues $ 461 Weather. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions in 2005 compared to 2004. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 90% and 1% higher, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2005, one competitive electric generation supplier was approved to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, they are not currently supplying electricity to any residential customers. For 2005 and 2004, 33% and 35% of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers or under the PPO. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 19,310 20,939 Percentage of total retail deliveries 21 % 24 % Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 21,300 22,200 Percentage of total retail customers (b) (b) Volume (GWhs) (a) 30,905 30,426 Percentage of total retail deliveries 33 % 35 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Rate changes and mix. The change was primarily due to the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component of the CTC calculation which resulted in a decrease of $64 million to $105 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. 106 Table of Contents PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues increased in 2005 due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O / SECA rates. Revenues decreased as a result of the elimination of T&O rates in accordance with FERC orders that became effective December 1, 2004. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd, and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power Expense below. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. Purchased Power Expense. The changes in purchased power expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Prices $ 606 Weather 200 Customer choice 65 PJM 63 Volume 7 T&O collections / SECA rates (15 ) Other 6 Increase in purchased power expense $ 932 Prices. Purchased power increased due to higher prices associated with ComEds PPA with Generation of $497 million, and ancillary services of $109 million from PJM. In 2000, ComEd and Generation entered into a PPA that fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2004 based upon the then current market prices. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement with Generation, starting in January 1, 2005, ComEd began paying higher prices for its purchased power from Generation and ceased to procure its ancillary services from Generation. This agreement fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2006 based upon the current market prices as of April 30, 2004. Weather. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory, which increased the amount of electricity sold. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to fewer ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. PJM. The increase reflects higher transmission and purchased power expense of $57 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM and PJM administrative fees that increased by $6 million over 2004 fees. T&O Collections / SECA rates. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O rates for transmission service scheduled out of or across ComEds transmission system. Rates collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received by ComEd as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. ComEds purchased power expense increased $14 million due to ComEd no longer collecting T&O revenues in 2005. 107 Table of Contents Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005, ComEd recorded SECA collections net of SECA charges of $29 million. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O /SECA rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses (a) $ (47 ) Employee fringe benefits (b) (18 ) Pension expense and deferred compensation (c) (15 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts (13 ) Injuries and damages (2 ) Corporate allocations (b) 15 Storm costs 14 Contractors 12 PSEG merger integration costs 8 Other (18 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (64 ) (a) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other postretirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 as compared to 2004. (b) Excludes severance related expenses and pension expense. Reflects fewer employees compared to prior year and a reduction in 2005 related to estimated medical plan fees. A portion of the employee reduction is offset by an increase in corporate allocations. (c) Pension expense in 2005 is lower than in 2004 due in large part to significant pension plan contributions made in the first quarter of 2005. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds PPA with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd has approximately $3.5 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2005. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense $ 17 Other amortization expense (14 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 3 The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. The decrease in other amortization expense was primarily due to completing the amortization of one of ComEds software packages in 2004. 108 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 13 Tax refund (b) 6 Other (7 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 12 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) During 2004, a refund was received for Illinois electricity distribution taxes. Interest Expense, Net. The reduction in interest expense, net for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to long term debt retirements and prepayments in 2004 pursuant to Exelons accelerated liability management plan and scheduled payments on long term debt owed to the ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, partially offset by a $16 million decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC as a result of this receivable being repaid in late 2004. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt. In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $768 million of long term debt, of which $618 million was retired during the third quarter of 2004. During 2004, ComEd recorded a charge of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of this charge included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2005 compared to 2004 included a $15 million loss on settlement of cash flow swaps in 2005. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was (116.0)% and 40.3% for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The goodwill impairment charge decreased the effective income tax rate by 135.0% in 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 109 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 30,042 26,463 3,579 13.5 % Small commercial & industrial 21,378 21,662 (284 ) (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 7,904 6,913 991 14.3 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,133 1,893 240 12.7 % Total full service 61,457 56,931 4,526 7.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 5,591 4,110 1,481 36.0 % Large commercial & industrial 6,004 5,377 627 11.7 % 11,595 9,487 2,108 22.2 % Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,677 6,305 (628 ) (10.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 13,633 14,634 (1,001 ) (6.8 )% 19,310 20,939 (1,629 ) (7.8 )% Total PPO and delivery only 30,905 30,426 479 1.6 % Total retail deliveries 92,362 87,357 5,005 5.7 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,584 $ 2,295 $ 289 12.6 % Small commercial & industrial 1,671 1,649 22 1.3 % Large commercial & industrial 408 380 28 7.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 132 126 6 4.8 % Total full service 4,795 4,450 345 7.8 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 385 274 111 40.5 % Large commercial & industrial 345 304 41 13.5 % 730 578 152 26.3 % Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 95 128 (33 ) (25.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 156 204 (48 ) (23.5 )% 251 332 (81 ) (24.4 )% Total PPO and delivery only 981 910 71 7.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,776 5,360 416 7.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 488 443 45 10.2 % Total operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 7.9 % (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. 110 Table of Contents (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from competitive electric generation suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. Results of Operations PECO 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 423 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 2,515 2,172 (343 ) Operating and maintenance 549 547 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 566 518 (48 ) Taxes other than income 231 236 5 Total operating expense 3,861 3,473 (388 ) Operating income 1,049 1,014 35 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (279 ) (303 ) 24 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) (25 ) 9 Other, net 13 18 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (282 ) (310 ) 28 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 767 704 63 Income taxes 247 249 2 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 520 455 65 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) (3 ) Net income 517 455 62 Preferred stock dividends 4 3 (1 ) Net income on common stock $ 513 $ 452 $ 61 Net Income. PECOs net income in 2005 increased primarily as a result of higher revenues, net of related purchased power expense, due to favorable weather and lower interest expense due to the scheduled retirement of debt owed to PETT, partially offset by higher CTC amortization. Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Rate changes and mix $ 72 $ 90 $ 162 Customer choice 118 118 Volume 101 (21 ) 80 Weather 54 10 64 Retail revenue 345 79 424 T&O / SECA rates 3 3 PJM transmission (3 ) (3 ) Other 9 (10 ) (1 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 9 (10 ) (1 ) Increase in operating revenues $ 354 $ 69 $ 423 111 Table of Contents Rate changes and mix. The increase in electric revenues at PECO attributable to rate changes and mix resulted from increased residential sales, which are billed at higher average rates relative to other customer classes. In addition, rates were higher in 2005 for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were higher in 2005 relative to 2004. The increase in gas revenues was due to increases in rates through PAPUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2004, March 1, 2005, June 1, 2005, September 1, 2005 and December 1, 2005. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2005 was 12% higher than the average rate for 2004. Customer choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. For 2005 and 2004, 5% and 12%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 44,500 101,500 Percentage of total retail customers 3 % 7 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 2,094 4,605 Percentage of total retail deliveries 5 % 12 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice was primarily related to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. This action followed the assignment of approximately 194,000 residential customers to competitive electric generation suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PAPUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. In 2005, additional customers returned to PECO as their energy supplier primarily as a result of two alternative energy suppliers exiting the market. Volume. The increase in electric revenues was primarily as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were positively affected by favorable weather conditions at PECO in 2005 compared to 2004. In the PECO service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 21% and 2% higher, respectively, than the prior year. T&O / SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power and Fuel 112 Table of Contents Expense below. The elimination of T&O revenues and inclusion of SECA revenues had a minimal impact on PECO as T&O revenues recognized in the past were not material and SECA revenues currently being recognized also are not material. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. Other wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. Electric revenues increased $9 million primarily due to increased wholesale sales, and gas revenues decreased $10 million primarily due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Prices $ 83 $ 90 $ 173 Customer choice 118 118 Weather 21 7 28 Volume 32 (15 ) 17 PJM transmission 11 11 SECA rates 9 9 Other (13 ) (13 ) Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 274 $ 69 $ 343 Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Weather. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to serving the increased demand due to favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory. Volume. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was due primarily to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005 and 2004, PECO recorded SECA charges of $10 million and $1 million, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O and SECA rates. Other. The decrease in gas fuel expense of $13 million was associated with decreased off system sales. 113 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Contractors (a) $ 8 Storm costs 7 Implementation of new customer information and billing system 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Severance related expenses (b) (14 ) Injuries and damages (6 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) The increase was primarily due to increases in vegetation management services compared to the prior year at PECO. (b) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other post retirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 compared to 2004. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization (a) $ 37 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) 13 Depreciation expense(c) 3 Other amortization expense (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 48 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system requires the accelerated amortization of PECOs current system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. (c) The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Reduction in capital stock tax accrual in 2005 (a) $ (17 ) Reduction in real estate tax accrual in 2005 (b) (6 ) Taxes on utility revenues (c) 24 Other (6 ) Decrease in taxes other than income $ (5 ) (a) Represents a reduction in 2005 of prior year capital stock tax accruals as a result of a favorable decision from the Pennsylvania Board of Finance and Revenue. (b) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in March 2005 following settlements between PECO and various taxing authorities related to prior year tax assessments. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. 114 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net. The reduction in interest expense, net for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to scheduled payments on long term debt owed to PETT. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts of PECO due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 32.2% for 2005 compared to 35.4% for 2004. The lower effective tax rate reflects a state income tax benefit recorded as a result of the favorable settlement of a 2000 Pennsylvania corporate net income tax audit. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 13,135 10,349 2,786 26.9 % Small commercial & industrial 7,263 6,728 535 8.0 % Large commercial & industrial 15,205 14,908 297 2.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 962 914 48 5.3 % Total full service 36,565 32,899 3,666 11.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 334 2,158 (1,824 ) (84.5 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,257 1,687 (430 ) (25.5 )% Large commercial & industrial 503 760 (257 ) (33.8 )% Total delivery only 2,094 4,605 (2,511 ) (54.5 )% Total retail deliveries 38,659 37,504 1,155 3.1 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. 115 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,705 $ 1,317 $ 388 29.5 % Small commercial & industrial 818 756 62 8.2 % Large commercial & industrial 1,173 1,113 60 5.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 84 80 4 5.0 % Total full service 3,780 3,266 514 15.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 25 164 (139 ) (84.8 )% Small commercial & industrial 63 86 (23 ) (26.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 13 20 (7 ) (35.0 )% Total delivery only 101 270 (169 ) (62.6 )% Total electric retail revenues 3,881 3,536 345 9.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 212 203 9 4.4 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,093 $ 3,739 $ 354 9.5 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,751 59,949 (198 ) (0.3 )% Transportation 25,310 27,148 (1,838 ) (6.8 )% Total 85,061 87,097 (2,036 ) (2.3 )% Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 783 $ 702 $ 81 11.5 % Transportation 16 18 (2 ) (11.1 )% Resales and other 18 28 (10 ) (35.7 )% Total gas revenue $ 817 $ 748 $ 69 9.2 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. These capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations. When necessary, the Registrants obtain funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on their credit ratings and current business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively, that they currently utilize to support their commercial paper programs and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. 116 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, each of Exelons, ComEds and PECOs working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd intends to refinance maturing long term debt during 2007. To manage cash flows as more fully described below, ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows will be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Cash flows from operations have been a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements. Taking into account the factors noted above, Exelon also obtains cash from non operating sources such as the proceeds from the debt issuance in 2005 to fund Exelons $2 billion pension contribution (see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in the rate regulatory environments of ComEd and PECO. ComEd is required, beginning in 2007, to purchase energy in the wholesale energy markets in order to meet the retail energy needs of ComEds customers because ComEd does not own any generation. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell energy is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there may be potential material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. The ICC approved a cap and deferral program, proposed by ComEd, to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers. The cap and deferral program, generally speaking, will limit the procurement costs that ComEd can pass through to its customers for a specified period of time and allow ComEd to collect any unrecovered procurement costs in later years. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on the procurement case. Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO will increase due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, beginning in 2007, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, ComEd or Ameren are not required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation is required to post collateral. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Generations collateral policy. 117 Table of Contents Additionally, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the IRS, to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets, to which the IRS has objected. As discussed in Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, this deferred tax obligation is significant. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations: 2006 2005 Variance Net income $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,213 4,102 (889 ) Income taxes 69 138 (69 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) 141 (791 ) 932 Pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments, net (180 ) (2,225 ) 2,045 Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,835 $2,147 $ 2,688 (a) Includes depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, pension and other postretirement benefits expense, other decommissioning related activities, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment charges and other non cash items. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. The increase in cash flows from operations during 2006 was primarily the result of $2 billion of discretionary contributions to Exelons pension plans during 2005, which was initially funded through a term loan agreement, as further described in the Cash Flows from Financing Activities section below. Of the total contribution, Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $844 million, $803 million, and $109 million, respectively. The Generation contribution was primarily funded by capital contributions from Exelon and included $2 million from internally generated funds. ComEds and PECOs contributions were funded by capital contributions from Exelon. Cash flows provided by operations for 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ 4,835 $ 2,147 Generation 2,550 972 ComEd 987 247 PECO 1,017 704 Excluding the March 2005 discretionary pension contributions discussed above, changes in the Registrants cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in their results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations and the discretionary pension contributions discussed above, significant operating cash flow impacts for Generation and ComEd for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Generation At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Generation had accounts receivable from ComEd under the PPA of $197 million, $242 million and $189 million, respectively. 118 Table of Contents At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Generation had accounts receivable from PECO under the PPA of $153 million, $151 million and $125 million, respectively. During 2006, Generation had net collections of counterparty collateral of $431 million compared to $187 million of net disbursements of counterparty collateral in 2005. The increase in cash inflows from 2005 was primarily due to changes in collateral requirements resulting from the extension of letters of credit and changes in market prices relative to positions with counterparties. During 2006 and 2005, Generation had net payments of approximately $220 million and $165 million, respectively, primarily due to increased use of financial instruments to economically hedge future sales of power and future purchases of fossil fuel. During 2005, Exelon received a $102 million Federal income tax refund for capital losses generated in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. In the first quarter of 2006, Exelon remitted a $98 million payment to the IRS in connection with the settlement of the IRSs challenge of the timing of the above described deduction. This payment included $6 million of interest which was recognized as interest expense in the first quarter of 2006. Exelon received approximately $92 million on December 13, 2006 related to this same deduction in connection with the filing of its 2005 tax return. ComEd At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, ComEd had accrued payments to Generation under the PPA of $197 million, $242 million and $189 million, respectively. In 2005, ComEd settled $325 million of interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges for a loss of $15 million. This was recorded as a pre tax charge to net income because the underlying transaction for which these interest rate swaps were entered into was no longer probable of occurring. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ (2,762 ) $ (2,487 ) Generation (1,406 ) (1,294 ) ComEd (894 ) (479 ) PECO (332 ) (241 ) Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2006 and projected amounts for 2007 are as follows: 2006 2007 Generation (a) $ 1,109 $ 1,353 ComEd 911 1,055 PECO 345 355 Other (b) 53 38 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 2,418 $ 2,801 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations. 119 Table of Contents Projected capital expenditures and other investments by the Registrants are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Generations capital expenditures for 2006 reflected additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages) and nuclear fuel. Generation anticipates that its capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 50% of the projected 2007 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO are for continuing projects to maintain and improve the reliability of their transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amount is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. ComEd and PECO are continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that their capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings and the issuance of debt or preferred securities. Other significant investing activities for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $92 million and $102 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generation During 2006, Generation made contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool totaling $13 million. During 2005, Generation received approximately $52 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to its retired units. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Specifically, subsidiaries of Generation closed on the acquisition of Reservoir Capital Groups 50% interest in Sithe for cash payments of $97 million and the sale of 100% of Sithe to Dynegy, for net cash proceeds of $103 million. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Sithe. ComEd As a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool, $308 million was returned to ComEd during 2005. PECO During 2006 and 2005, $8 million and $26 million, respectively, were returned to PECO as a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool. 120 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ (1,989 ) $ (19 ) Generation (1,050 ) 93 ComEd (96 ) 240 PECO (693 ) (500 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2006 by registrant was as follows: Registrant Debt issued in 2006 Use of proceeds ComEd $325 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to supplement working capital previously used to refinance amounts that ComEd used to repay bonds and notes. ComEd $300 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd Additional $115 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay bonds at maturity. ComEd $345 million of First Mortgage 5.40% Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 Used to repay borrowings under ComEds revolving credit agreement which had been used to repay bonds and to refinance notes. PECO $300 million of First Mortgage Bonds 5.95% Series, due October 1, 2036 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement. The loan proceeds were used to fund discretionary contributions of $2 billion to Exelons pension plans, including contributions of $842 million, $803 million and $109 million by Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively. To facilitate the contributions by Generation, ComEd and PECO, Exelon contributed the corresponding amounts to the capital of each company. On April 1, 2005, Exelon entered into a $500 million term loan agreement that was subsequently fully borrowed to reduce the $2 billion term loan. During the second quarter of 2005, $200 million of the $500 million term loan, as well as the remaining $1.5 billion balance on the $2 billion term loan described above, were repaid with the net proceeds received from the issuance of the long term senior notes discussed below. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. On June 9, 2005, Exelon issued and sold $1.7 billion of senior debt securities pursuant to its senior debt indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, consisting of $400 million of 4.45% senior notes due 2010, $800 million of 4.90% senior notes due 2015 and $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2035. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay the $1.5 billion in remaining principal due on the $2 billion term loan agreement and $200 million of the $500 million term loan agreement referenced above. Exelon may redeem some or all of the notes at any time prior to maturity at a specified redemption price. The notes are unsecured and rank equally with the other senior unsecured indebtedness of Exelon. Additionally, Exelon settled interest rate swaps for a net payment of $38 million and paid approximately $12 million of fees in connection with the debt offering. In 2005, ComEd used funding received from $324 million of commercial paper to retire long term debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. 121 Table of Contents Generation and Peoples Calumet, LLC (Peoples Calumet), a subsidiary of Peoples Energy Corporation, were joint owners of Southeast Chicago Energy Project, LLC (SCEP), a 350 megawatt natural gas fired, peaking electric power plant located in Chicago, Illinois, which began operation in 2002. In 2002, Generation and Peoples Calumet owned 70% and 30%, respectively, of SCEP. Generation reflected the third party interest in this majority owned investment as a long term liability in its consolidated financial statements. Pursuant to the joint owners agreement, Generation was obligated to purchase Peoples Calumets 30% interest ratably over a 20 year period. On March 31, 2006, Generation entered into an agreement to accelerate the acquisition of Peoples Calumets interest in SCEP. This transaction closed on May 31, 2006. Under the agreement, Generation paid Peoples Calumet approximately $47 million for its remaining interest in SCEP. Generation financed this transaction using short term debt and available cash. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ 1,071 $ 1,070 Generation 609 857 ComEd 498 PECO 506 473 Exelon paid dividends of $267 million, $268 million, $268 million and $268 million on March 10, 2006, June 12, 2006, September 11, 2006 and December 11, 2006, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2006, May 15, 2006, August 15, 2006 and November 15, 2006, respectively. On December 5, 2006, Exelons board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.44 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2007 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2007. See Dividends section of ITEM 5 for a further discussion of Exelons dividend policy. During 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. The decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend on a quarterly basis. In 2003, Congress passed and President Bush signed into law the Jobs and Growth Tax Reconciliation Act, legislation which lowered the tax rate on capital gains and corporate dividends to 15% for most investors and to 5% for lower income investors. Prior to enactment of this law, the maximum tax rate on dividend income was 38.6%. These provisions, which were originally scheduled to expire at the end of 2008, were extended to 2010 as part of the Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2005 passed in May 2006. Intercompany Money Pool. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool decreased $92 million and $191 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. During 2006, ComEd repaid $140 million that it had borrowed from the Exelon intercompany money pool. ComEds net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool increased $140 million during 2005. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd suspended participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool increased $45 million in 2006. Commercial Paper and Notes Payable. During 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO repaid $685 million, $311 million, $399 million and $125 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2005, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO issued $500 million, $311 million, $459 million and $220 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. 122 Table of Contents In 2006, Exelon terminated its $300 million term loan agreement. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Exelon $ 910 $ 835 ComEd 339 354 PECO 571 481 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Generation $ 25 $ 843 ComEd 37 834 PECO 181 250 Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Exelon purchased treasury shares totaling $186 million and $362 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $184 million and $222 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. There was $60 million and $0 of excess tax benefits included as a cash inflow in other financing activities during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper by the Registrants. At December 31, 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. These revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at the Registrants and to issue letters of credit. During 2006, ComEd borrowed and fully repaid $240 million under its credit agreement. At December 31, 2006, the Registrants had the following aggregate bank commitments and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower AggregateBankCommitment (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon Corporate $ 1,000 $ 993 $ 150 Generation 5,000 4,920 ComEd 1,000 956 60 PECO 600 598 95 (a) Represents the total bank commitments to the borrower under credit agreements to which the borrower is a party. (b) Available capacity represents the unused bank commitments under the borrowers credit agreements net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit agreements. 123 Table of Contents Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 200 basis points. The average interest rates on commercial paper in 2006 for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO were approximately 5.02%, 4.99%, 5.06% and 4.97%, respectively. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and, in the case of Exelon and Generation, revenues from Sithe and interest on the debt of its project subsidiaries. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the year ended December 31, 2006: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.25 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2006, the Registrants were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. The ComEd credit agreement is secured by first mortgage bonds and imposes a restriction on future mortgage bond issuances by ComEd. It requires ComEd to maintain at least $1.75 billion of issuance availability (ignoring any interest coverage test) in the form of property additions or bondable bond retirements (previously issued, but now retired, bonds), most of which are required to be maintained in the form of bondable bond retirements. In general, a dollar of bonds can be issued under ComEds Mortgage on the basis of $1.50 of property additions, subject to an interest coverage test, or $1 of bondable bond retirements, which may or may not be subject to an interest coverage test. As of December 31, 2006, ComEd was in compliance with this requirement. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2006, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 40 % 25 % 33 % 25 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 16 9 43 Common equity 43 57 29 Members equity 75 Preferred securities 1 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 1 2 (a) As of December 31, 2006, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.1 billion receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table, but is excluded from the percentages in this footnote), consisted of 40% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 2% notes payable and 57% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. (b) Includes $3.6 billion, $1.0 billion and $2.6 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property and CTCs of ComEd and PECO or mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money 124 Table of Contents pool. Participation in the intercompany money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons treasurer. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon and UII, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, may participate as lenders. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2006 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2006: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2006Contributed (Borrowed) Generation $ 83 $ 234 $ 13 ComEd (a) 140 PECO 59 183 (45 ) BSC 234 134 (25 ) UII, LLC 5 Exelon 248 56 (a) As of January 10, 2006, ComEd suspended participation in the intercompany money pool. During the first quarter of 2006, ComEd repaid $140 million that it had borrowed from the intercompany money pool. Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2006: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa2 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Baa3 BB+ BBB Senior secured debt Baa2 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P3 A3 F2 Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (b) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On July 26, 2006, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) downgraded the long term and short term debt ratings of ComEd. The rating action concluded Moodys review for possible downgrade that commenced on December 15, 2005. Moodys attributed the downgrade to a difficult political and regulatory environment in Illinois, uncertainty about the outcome of the electricity supply auction and the expectation of a material regulatory deferral. On October 10, 2006, Moodys placed ComEds security ratings under review for possible downgrade resulting from perceived increasing political and regulatory risk in Illinois. 125 Table of Contents On July 31, 2006, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long term ratings of ComEd. On November 17, 2006, Fitch Ratings placed the ratings of ComEd under Ratings Watch negative due to on going uncertainty in Illinois resulting from recent legislative actions supporting a rate freeze. On October 5, 2006, Standard & Poors (S&P) downgraded the short term and long term security ratings of ComEd due to perceived political risk related to the rate freeze extension proposal. S&P downgraded ComEds senior unsecured debt to BB+, which is below investment grade. The ratings on Exelon, PECO and Generation were affirmed. The ratings for all Registrants were placed under Credit Watch with negative implications. None of the Registrants borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under the Registrants credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Shelf Registrations As of December 31, 2006, Exelon and PECO had current shelf registration statements for the sale of $300 million and $250 million, respectively, of securities that were effective with the SEC. ComEd, a well known seasoned issuer as described by the SEC, filed an automatic registration statement on May 10, 2006 and the shelf registration was effective immediately. The ability of Exelon, ComEd or PECO to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Restrictions The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. Under PUHCA, the SEC had financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations and Exelons financings. As a result of the repeal of PUHCA, 126 Table of Contents effective February 8, 2006, the SECs financing jurisdiction under PUHCA for ComEds and PECOs short term financings and Generations financings reverted to FERC and Exelons financings are no longer subject to regulatory approvals. In February 2006, ComEd and PECO received orders from FERC approving their requests for short term financing authority with FERC in the amounts of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, effective February 8, 2006 through December 31, 2007. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC with its market based rate authority in November 2000 and that became effective again with the repeal of PUHCA. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Under applicable law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. At December 31, 2006, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.4 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $1.8 billion, ComEds retained deficit of $(193) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1.6) billion partially offset by $1.4 billion of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends, and PECOs retained earnings of $584 million. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owns interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that own synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45K contains a provision under which the tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. On April 11, 2006, the IRS published the 2005 oil Reference Price and it did not exceed the beginning of the phase out range. Consequently, there was no phase out of tax credits for calendar year 2005. The following table (in dollars) provides the estimated phase out ranges for 2006 and 2007 based on the per barrel price of oil as of December 31, 2006. The table also contains the annual average New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. index (NYMEX) prices per barrel at December 31, 2006 based on actual prices for the year ended December 31, 2006 and the estimated average futures prices for the year ended December 31, 2007. 2006 2007 Beginning of Phase Out Range (a) $ 60 $ 62 End of Phase Out Range (a) 76 77 Annual Average NYMEX 66 64 (a) The estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges are based upon the actual 2005 phase out range. The actual 2005 phase out range was determined using the inflation adjustment factor published by the IRS in April 2006. The actual 2005 phase out range was increased by 2% per year (Exelons estimate of inflation) to arrive at the estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges. Exelon and the operators of the synthetic fuel producing facilities in which Exelon has interests idled the facilities in May 2006. The decision to suspend synthetic fuel production was primarily driven by the level and volatility of oil prices. In addition, the proposed Federal legislation that would have provided certainty that tax credits would exist for 2006 production was not included in the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005. Due to the reduction in oil prices during the third quarter of 2006, the operators resumed production at their synthetic fuel producing facilities in September 2006 127 Table of Contents and produced at full capacity through the remainder of 2006. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon has estimated the 2006 phase out to be 38%, which has reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $164 million to $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, Exelon has estimated the 2007 phase out of tax credits to be 18%. Exelon anticipates generating approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments, of which $80 million is expected in total for 2007 and 2008, assuming an 18% phase out of tax credits. Theses estimates may change significantly due to the volatility of oil prices. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges are based upon the actual 2005 phase out range. The actual 2005 phase out range was determined using the inflation adjustment factor published by the IRS in April 2006. The actual 2005 phase out range was increased by 2% each year (Exelons estimate of inflation) to arrive at the estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2012 and beyond 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 9,126 $ 246 $ 922 $ 2,427 $ 5,531 Long term debt to financing trusts 3,596 581 1,664 806 545 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 4,976 486 888 757 2,845 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,318 225 285 98 710 Capital leases 44 2 4 4 34 Operating leases 716 58 110 93 455 Purchase power obligations (b) 7,802 1,967 1,492 1,134 3,209 Fuel purchase agreements 5,022 1,047 1,463 1,169 1,343 Other purchase obligations (b)(c) 642 292 140 95 115 Chicago agreement (d) 36 6 12 12 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 950 950 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 32 32 Total contractual obligations $ 34,260 $ 4,942 $ 6,980 $ 6,595 $ 15,743 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2006. (b) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2006. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are contingent on plant availability. Does not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (c) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (d) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. 128 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment Due within Due 2012 and beyond (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 1,749 $ 10 $ 19 $ 700 $ 1,020 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 786 96 190 138 362 Capital leases 44 2 4 4 34 Operating leases 503 34 61 53 355 Purchase power obligations (b) 7,802 1,967 1,492 1,134 3,209 Fuel purchase agreements 4,516 830 1,317 1,104 1,265 Other purchase commitments (c) 277 165 50 38 24 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 24 24 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 950 950 Total contractual obligations $ 16,651 $ 3,128 $ 3,133 $ 3,171 $ 7,219 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2006. (b) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2006. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are contingent on plant availability. (c) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2012 and beyond Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 3,597 $ 147 $ 434 $ 560 $ 2,456 Long term debt to financing trusts 1,009 308 340 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,970 192 346 326 1,106 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 655 57 64 52 482 Operating leases 143 19 38 30 56 Other purchase commitments (b) 38 27 7 4 Chicago agreement (c) 36 6 12 12 6 Total contractual obligations $ 7,448 $ 756 $ 1,241 $ 984 $ 4,467 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. Other purchase commitments do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds supplier forward contracts. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. 129 Table of Contents PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2012 and beyond (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 1,471 $ $ 450 $ 267 $ 754 Long term debt to financing trusts 2,588 273 1,325 806 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 851 70 114 105 562 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 663 168 221 46 228 Operating leases 5 1 2 1 1 Fuel purchase agreements (b) 506 217 146 65 78 Other purchase commitments (c) 209 20 51 47 91 Total contractual obligations $ 6,293 $ 749 $ 2,309 $ 1,337 $ 1,898 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (c) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. For additional information about: commercial paper, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments and fuel purchase agreements, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the contribution required to Exelons pension plans to satisfy ERISA minimum funding requirements, see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the spent nuclear fuel and nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $14 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2006 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be 130 Table of Contents available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permitted ComEd through December 31, 2006, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. At December 31, 2006, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets related to its nuclear fueled generating facilities was approximately $3.5 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Following the completion of decommissioning activities, any excess nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to the former ComEd and PECO nuclear power plants will be required to be refunded to ComEd or PECO, as appropriate. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held approximately $6.4 billion of investments in trust funds, including unrealized gains at December 31, 2006. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Exelons commercial commitments as of December 31, 2006. Refund Claims ComEd and PECO have several pending tax refund claims seeking acceleration of certain tax deductions and additional tax credits. ComEd and PECO are unable to estimate the ultimate outcome of these refund claims and will account for any amounts received in the period the matters are settled with the IRS and state taxing authorities. While Generation currently has state reviews by governmental agencies pending, they are not expected to have a significant impact on the financial condition or result of operations of Generation. ComEd and PECO have entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the IRS. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome of the claims and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS, if any. The ultimate net cash impacts to ComEd and PECO related to these agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claim with the IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. If a settlement is reached, a portion of ComEds tax benefits, including any associated interest for periods prior to the PECO/Unicom Merger, would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill under the provisions of EITF Issue 93 7, Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination (EITF 93 7). Exelon cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. In 2006, the Joint Committee on Taxation (Joint Committee) completed its review and granted approval for PECOs income tax refund claims for investment tax credits. A majority of the investment tax credits claimed in the refund related to PECOs formerly owned generation property. The asset transfer agreement between PECO and Generation provides that PECO retains all current tax and interest benefits associated with the refund claims. Thus, as a result of the agreement, PECO recorded the current tax and interest benefits and Generation recorded the remaining unamortized investment tax credits and the related future deferred tax effects. As a result, the investment tax credit refund and associated interest of $19 million (after tax) have been recorded as a credit in Exelons and PECOs Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2006. Exelon and Generation recorded unamortized investment tax credits and related tax impacts of $10 million (after tax) as a charge to their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The unamortized investment tax credit recorded at Exelon, PECO and Generation will be amortized over the remaining depreciable book lives of the transmission, distribution and generation property using the deferral method pursuant to APB No. 2, Accounting for the Investment Credit and APB No. 4, Accounting for the Investment Credit. In addition, as a result 131 Table of Contents of the approval of the refund claim, Exelon and PECO recorded a consulting expense of $3 million (after tax) in 2006. The net after tax result of this settlement and consulting fees was $6 million, $16 million and $(10) million for Exelon, PECO and Generation, respectively. During 2006, the IRS indicated to PECO that it agreed with a substantial portion of a research and development refund claim. This refund claim was subject to the approval of the Joint Committee. In 2006, the Joint Committee completed its review and granted approval of the research and development claim. A majority of the refund claim also related to PECOs formerly owned generation property. Consistent with the investment tax credit refund claims, pursuant to the asset transfer agreement between PECO and Generation, PECO recorded the current tax and interest benefits and Generation recorded the future deferred tax effects. As a result, a research and development credit and the associated interest refund of $20 million (after tax) have been recorded as a credit in Exelons and PECOs Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2006. Exelon and Generation recorded the future deferred tax impact of $11 million as a charge to their Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, based on the IRS indication of its agreement with a portion of the refund claim, PECO recorded an estimated tax consulting contingent fee of $2 million (after tax) during 2006. The net after tax result of this settlement and consulting fees was $7 million, $18 million, and $(11) million for Exelon, PECO, and Generation respectively. Variable Interest Entities Sithe. As of December 31, 2004, Generation was a 50% owner of Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Generation consolidated Sithe within its financial statements as of March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of Generations entire interest in Sithe that was completed on January 31, 2005. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Trust IV in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding, LLC, ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, PECO Trust III and PETT were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Amounts of $1.0 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the American Nuclear Insurers (ANI) Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, 132 Table of Contents Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable through November 2010. At December 31, 2006, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $208 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, (SFAS No. 140), and a $17 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable which was accounted for as a long term note payable. At December 31, 2005, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $195 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, and a $30 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which was accounted for as a long term note payable. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for these receivables. The agreement requires PECO to maintain the $225 million interest, which, if not met, requires cash, which would otherwise be received by PECO under this program, to be held in escrow until the requirement is met. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposits. Beginning in 2007, this agreement will be subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, amendment of FASB Statement No. 140, which is not expected to have a material impact to PECO. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 133 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Corporation The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation is primarily exposed to commodity price risk with ComEd having modest exposure due to the need to purchase ancillary services. Exelon and Generation In 2005, Exelon and Generation entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. One of the counterparties has security interests in these derivatives. Including the related mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities reduced Exelons net income by $24 million and increased Exelons net income by $81 million and $70 million during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Exelon anticipates that it will continue to record income or losses related to the mark to market gains or losses on its derivative instruments and changes to the tax credits earned by Exelon during the period of production due to the volatility of oil prices. Net income or net losses from interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities are reflected in Exelons Consolidated Statements of Operations within income taxes, operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates and other, net. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to consolidated Financial Statements for further information in regards to synthetic fuel activity. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and they are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case those changes are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. 134 Table of Contents Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is approximately three years. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 2007 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. A portion of Generations hedge may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity would be a decrease of less than $50 million in net income. This sensitivity assumes that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2006 resulted in a gain of $14 million (before income taxes), which represented a net unrealized mark to market gain of $10 million and realized gain of $4 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $120,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for year ended December 31, 2006 of $5,165 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officer (CCRO). 135 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2006. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2005 (a) $ (145 ) Total change in fair value during 2005 of contracts recorded in earnings 108 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (105 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 583 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (879 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (102 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2005 (a) (540 ) Total change in fair value during 2006 of contracts recorded in earnings 41 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 66 Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 146 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI 789 Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (3 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets at December 31, 2006 $ 499 (a) Includes a $39 million liability related to Sithe and the related mark to market expense which were reclassified to discontinued operations. The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2006 and 2005: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Current assets $ 1,408 $ 916 Noncurrent assets 171 286 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,579 1,202 Current liabilities (1,003 ) (1,282 ) Noncurrent liabilities (77 ) (460 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (1,080 ) (1,742 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 499 $ (540 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 136 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, the table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within Total Fair Value (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by other external sources 345 59 14 1 419 Total $ 341 $ 59 $ 14 $ 1 $ $ $ 415 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ (122 ) $ 25 $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ (98 ) Prices provided by other external sources 232 1 233 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (50 ) (1 ) (51 ) Total $ 60 $ 24 $ $ $ $ $ 84 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate andOtherHedges Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2005 $ (137 ) $ (9 ) $ (146 ) Changes in fair value (533 ) 5 (528 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income 356 356 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2005 (314 ) (4 ) (318 ) Changes in fair value 476 1 477 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 88 88 Accumulated OCI derivative gain (loss) at December 31, 2006 $ 250 $ (3 ) $ 247 137 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd has derivatives related to one wholesale contract and certain other contracts to manage the market price exposures to several wholesale contracts that extend into 2007, which is beyond the expiration of ComEds PPA with Generation. Additionally, the supplier forward contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction (see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. As of December 31, 2006, the fair value of the derivative wholesale contract of $5 million was recorded on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet, which is classified as a current liability. The financial derivative used to manage the market price exposure to several wholesale contracts is designated and effective as a cash flow hedge, as defined in SFAS No. 133. As such, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. As of December 31, 2006, the fair value of this contract of $6 million was recorded on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet as a current liability. ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to ancillary services that are purchased from PJM. Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation Generations PPA with ComEd expired at the end of 2006. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren auctions. As a result of the expiration of the PPA and the results of the auctions, beginning in 2007, Generation will sell more electricity through bilateral agreements with other new and existing counterparties. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment; therefore, Generations credit risk profile is anticipated to change based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. Additionally, due to the possibility of rate freeze legislation in Illinois affecting both ComEd and Ameren, Generation may be subject to the risk of default and, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by ComEd or Ameren, a risk that the bankruptcy may result in rejection of contracts for the purchase of electricity. A default by ComEd or Ameren on contracts for purchase of electricity, or a rejection of those contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding, could result in a disruption in the wholesale power markets. For additional information on the Illinois auction, the proposed legislation and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 138 Table of Contents The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through RTOs and Independent System Operators (ISOs) which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2006 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,005 $ 268 $ 737 1 $ 95 Non investment grade 53 9 44 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 10 1 9 Internally rated non investment grade 4 3 1 Total $ 1,072 $ 281 $ 791 1 $ 95 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Rating as of December 31, 2005 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 472 $ 53 $ 419 2 $ 147 Non investment grade 60 11 49 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 41 41 Internally rated non investment grade 38 38 Total $ 611 $ 64 $ 547 2 $ 147 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2006 (a) Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 944 $ 61 $ $ 1,005 Non investment grade 40 13 53 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 10 10 Internally rated non investment grade 3 1 4 Total $ 997 $ 75 $ $ 1,072 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable 139 Table of Contents grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO will increase due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, beginning in 2007, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, neither ComEd nor Ameren is required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation may be required to post collateral. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on contracted clearing prices related to the ComEd and Ameren auctions. As of December 31, 2006, Generation had $26 million of collateral deposit payments being held by counterparties and Generation was holding $273 million of collateral deposits received from counterparties. RTOs and ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets that are administered by: PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd is currently unable to predict the impact of the reverse auction power prices, effective in January 2007, on its provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. PECO has experienced an increase in its provision for uncollectible accounts in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of higher average 140 Table of Contents accounts receivable balances in 2006 resulting from increased revenues, changes in PAPUC approved regulations related to customer payment terms and an increase in the number of low income customers participating in customer assistance programs, which allow for the forgiveness of certain receivables. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3.5% of its electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 5.9% of its retail electric and gas revenues. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets included a $529 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2006. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $963 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Variable Rate Debt. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2006, the Registrants did not have any material fair value or cash flow interest rate hedges outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $4 million, $2 million, $1 million and $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs, respectively, pre tax earnings. Fair Value Hedges. During 2006, ComEd settled its interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million for a cash payment of approximately $1 million. Cash Flow Hedges. In 2005, ComEd settled its interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $325 million due to the underlying transaction for which these interest rate swaps were entered into was no longer probable of occurring. As a result, Exelon and ComEd recognized a pre tax loss of $15 million which was included in other, net within the Consolidated Statements of Operations and within Cash Flows From Investing Activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In addition, during 2005, Exelon settled interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $1.5 billion and recorded pre tax losses of $39 million which will be recorded as additional interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2006, Generations 141 Table of Contents decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $460 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. Exelon and Generation maintain trust assets associated with defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 142 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility that Generation currently utilizes to support is commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 143 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 144 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where ComEd no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, ComEd has access to a revolving credit facility that ComEd currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 145 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 146 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 147 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 148 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for further detail. 50 Table of Contents Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance of these guaranteed obligations by the third parties, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance could have a material impact on the financial statements of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding guarantees. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. The Registrants may continue to pursue investments that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. With the repeal of PUHCA, the Registrants are free to make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that were formerly not permitted under PUHCA and that might present more risk than the types of investments and mergers and acquisitions that were permitted under PUHCA. However, with the repeal of PUHCA, it is possible that FERC or the state public utility commissions may impose certain other restrictions on the investments that the Registrants may make. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2006. The table does not include properties held by equity method investments: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type PrimaryDispatch Type (e) Net GenerationCapacity (MW) (b) Nuclear (c) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,048 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,742 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,302 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,135 (d) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,303 (d) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 969 (d) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,945 (continued on next page) 51 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) Primary Fuel Type PrimaryDispatch Type (e) Net GenerationCapacity (MW) (b) Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (d) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Intermediate 147 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 211 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Intermediate 599 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 916 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 400 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (d) Mountain Creek 2, 6, 7 Dallas, TX 3 Gas Peaking 273 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 550 New Boston 1 South Boston, MA 1 Gas Intermediate 355 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 175 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (d) 5,191 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 54 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 497 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 74 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 76 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 60 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 41 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 160 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 172 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 60 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 18 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 132 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 38 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 312 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 72 1,788 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (d) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 536 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 1,606 Total 126 25,543 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (c) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (d) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. 52 Table of Contents (e) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of low efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels and pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the property deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ComEd and PECO The electric substations and a portion of the transmission rights of way are located on property owned by ComEd and PECO. A significant portion of the electric transmission and distribution facilities is located over or under highways, streets, other public places or property owned by others, for which permits, grants, easements or licenses, deemed satisfactory by ComEd and PECO but without examination of underlying land titles, have been obtained. Transmission and Distribution ComEds and PECOs higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2006 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles ComEd 765,000 90 345,000 2,621 138,000 2,867 69,000 149 PECO 500,000 188 (a) 220,000 541 132,000 156 66,000 153 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,197 circuit miles of overhead lines and 34,917 cable miles of underground lines. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,811 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,224 cable miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2006: Pipeline Miles Transmission 31 Distribution 6,623 Service piping 5,398 Total 12,052 53 Table of Contents PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania which has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. Mortgages The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first mortgage bonds are issued. Insurance ComEd and PECO maintain property insurance against loss or damage to their respective properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd and PECO are self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd or PECO. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 54 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2007, there were 670,157,335 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 154,087 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2006 2005 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 63.62 $ 61.98 $ 58.86 $ 59.90 $ 56.00 $ 57.46 $ 52.01 $ 47.18 Low price 57.83 56.74 51.13 52.79 46.62 49.60 44.14 41.77 Close 61.89 60.54 56.83 52.90 53.14 53.44 51.33 45.89 Dividends 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 Effective October 24, 2005, Exelons Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation were amended to increase the number of authorized shares of Exelon common stock from 1.2 billion to 2 billion. The attached table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Exelon of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2006. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 1 October 31, 2006 10,460 $ 60.55 (b ) November 1 November 30, 2006 59.28 2,223,250 (b ) Total 10,460 59.29 2,223,250 (b ) (a) Shares other than those purchased as a part of a publicly announced plan primarily represent restricted shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares. (b) In April 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program that allows Exelon to repurchase shares of its common stock on a periodic basis in the open market. The share repurchase program is intended to mitigate, in part, the dilutive effect of shares issued under Exelons employee stock option plan and Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The aggregate shares of common stock repurchased pursuant to the program cannot exceed the economic benefit received after January 1, 2004 due to stock option exercises and share purchases pursuant to Exelons ESPP. The economic benefit consists of direct cash proceeds from purchases of stock and tax benefits associated with exercises of stock options. The share repurchase program has no specified limit and no specified termination date. Generation As of January 31, 2007, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. 55 Table of Contents ComEd As of January 31, 2007, there were outstanding 127,016,519 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At January 31, 2007, in addition to Exelon, there were 269 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. PECO As of January 31, 2007, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd may not declare any dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to ComEd Financing II or ComEd Financing III; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of ComEd Financing II or ComEd Financing III; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2006, such capital was $2.8 billion and amounted to about 32 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PECO Energy Capital, L.P. (PEC L.P.) or PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. At December 31, 2006, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.4 billion, which includes Generations undistributed earnings of $1.8 billion, ComEds retained deficit of $(193) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1.6) billion, partially offset by $1.4 billion of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends and PECOs retained earnings of $584 million. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2006 and 2005: 2006 2005 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 56 Table of Contents The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2006 2005 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 165 $ 122 $ 157 $ 165 $ 108 $ 430 $ 80 $ 239 ComEd 146 107 107 138 PECO 134 117 135 116 122 116 116 115 On December 5, 2006, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.44 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2007, to shareholders of record of Exelon at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on February 15, 2007. This dividend declaration was made by the Exelon Board of Directors in connection with the Board of Directors approval of a value return policy that established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. The value return policy contemplates the use of share repurchases from time to time, when authorized by the Board of Directors, to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. Previously, Exelon had maintained a dividend payout policy of between 50 60% of ongoing operating earnings. During 2006, ComEd did not pay a quarterly dividend. This decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend on a quarterly basis. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. 57 Table of Contents For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 15,148 $ 14,060 Operating income 3,521 2,724 3,499 2,409 3,280 Income from continuing operations $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 1,870 $ 892 $ 1,690 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 2 14 (29 ) (99 ) (20 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,592 965 1,841 793 1,670 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (42 ) 23 112 (230 ) Net income (a), (b) $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 1,864 $ 905 $ 1,440 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 2.35 $ 1.40 $ 2.79 $ 1.36 $ 2.60 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 (0.04 ) (0.15 ) (0.03 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (0.06 ) 0.03 0.17 (0.35 ) Net income $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ 1.38 $ 2.22 Dividends per common share $ 1.60 $ 1.60 $ 1.26 $ 0.96 $ 0.88 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 676 676 669 657 649 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Change between 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. December 31, in millions 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 4,992 $ 4,637 $ 3,880 $ 4,524 $ 4,096 Property, plant and equipment, net 22,775 21,981 21,482 20,630 17,957 Noncurrent regulatory assets 5,808 4,734 5,076 5,564 6,061 Goodwill (a) 2,694 3,475 4,705 4,719 4,992 Other deferred debits and other assets 8,050 7,970 7,867 6,800 5,249 Total assets $ 44,319 $ 42,797 $ 43,010 $ 42,237 $ 38,355 Current liabilities $ 5,795 $ 6,563 $ 4,836 $ 5,683 $ 5,845 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (c) 11,911 11,760 12,148 13,489 13,127 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 2,975 2,518 2,490 2,229 1,001 Other deferred credits and other liabilities (b) 13,578 12,743 13,918 12,246 9,968 Minority interest 1 42 77 Preferred securities of subsidiaries (c) 87 87 87 87 595 Shareholders equity 9,973 9,125 9,489 8,503 7,742 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 44,319 $ 42,797 $ 43,010 $ 42,237 $ 38,355 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Change between 2006 and 2005 was primarily due to the impact of adopting SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158). (c) Due to the adoption of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of ComEd and PECO were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003. 58 Table of Contents Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. The results of operations for Generations retail business are not included in periods prior to 2004. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 8,135 $ 6,858 Operating income (loss) 2,396 1,852 1,039 (115 ) 509 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 657 $ (241 ) $ 387 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 4 19 (16 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,407 1,128 641 (241 ) 387 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (30 ) 32 108 13 Net income (loss) (a) $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 673 $ (133 ) $ 400 (a) Change between 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,433 $ 3,040 $ 2,321 $ 2,438 $ 1,805 Property, plant and equipment, net 7,514 7,464 7,536 7,106 4,698 Deferred debits and other assets 7,962 7,220 6,581 5,105 4,402 Total assets $ 18,909 $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 Current liabilities $ 2,914 $ 3,400 $ 2,416 $ 3,553 $ 2,594 Long term debt 1,778 1,788 2,583 1,649 2,132 Deferred credits and other liabilities 8,736 8,554 8,356 6,488 3,226 Minority interest 1 2 44 3 54 Members equity 5,480 3,980 3,039 2,956 2,899 Total liabilities and members equity $ 18,909 $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 $ 10,905 59 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 5,814 $ 6,124 Operating income (loss) 555 (12 ) 1,617 1,567 1,766 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ (112 ) $ (676 ) $ 676 $ 702 $ 790 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (9 ) 5 Net income (loss) (a) $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ 707 $ 790 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,007 $ 1,024 $ 1,196 $ 1,313 $ 1,049 Property, plant and equipment, net 10,457 9,906 9,463 9,096 8,689 Goodwill, net (a) 2,694 3,475 4,705 4,719 4,916 Noncurrent regulatory assets 532 280 240 326 515 Other deferred debits and other assets 3,084 2,806 2,077 2,837 1,662 Total assets $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 $ 18,291 $ 16,831 Current liabilities $ 1,600 $ 2,308 $ 1,764 $ 1,557 $ 2,023 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (b) 4,133 3,541 4,282 5,887 5,268 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 2,824 2,450 2,444 2,217 1,001 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,919 2,796 2,451 2,288 2,451 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (b) 330 Shareholders equity 6,298 6,396 6,740 6,342 5,758 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 $ 18,291 $ 16,831 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Due to the adoption of FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts as of December 31, 2003. 60 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 4,388 $ 4,333 Operating income 866 1,049 1,014 1,056 1,093 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 441 $ 520 $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (3 ) Net income $ 441 $ 517 $ 455 $ 473 $ 486 Net income on common stock $ 437 $ 513 $ 452 $ 468 $ 478 December 31, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 762 $ 795 $ 727 $ 659 $ 898 Property, plant and equipment, net 4,651 4,471 4,329 4,256 4,159 Noncurrent regulatory assets 3,896 4,454 4,836 5,238 5,546 Other deferred debits and other assets 464 366 241 232 88 Total assets $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 $ 10,385 $ 10,691 Current liabilities $ 978 $ 936 $ 748 $ 676 $ 1,509 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts (a) 3,784 4,143 4,628 5,239 4,951 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 151 68 46 12 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 3,051 3,235 3,313 3,442 3,342 Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (a) 128 Shareholders equity 1,809 1,704 1,398 1,016 761 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 $ 10,385 $ 10,691 (a) Due to the adoptions of FIN 46 and FIN 46 R in 2003, the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were reclassified as long term debt to financing trusts in 2003. 61 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon General Exelon is a utility services holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following operating segments: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail and wholesale customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose businesses consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Exelons corporate operations, through its business services subsidiary, BSC, provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $1,592 million in 2006 as compared to $923 million in 2005 and diluted earnings per average common share were $2.35 for 2006 as compared to $1.36 for 2005. The increases were primarily due to the following: a $1.2 billion impairment charge in 2005 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher margins on wholesale market sales and increased nuclear output at Generation; a one time benefit of approximately $290 million to recover certain costs approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order and the ICCs December 2006 amended rate order; unrealized mark to market gains on contracts not yet settled; a decrease in Generations nuclear asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in managements assessment of the probabilities associated with the anticipated timing of cash flows to decommission primarily the AmerGen nuclear plants; increased electric revenues at PECO associated with certain scheduled rate increases; increased kWh deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, reflecting 2006 load growth at ComEd and PECO; losses recorded in 2005 for the cumulative effect of adopting Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (FIN 47); and 62 Table of Contents a reserve recorded by Generation in 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims. The factors driving the overall increase in net income were partially offset by the following: a $776 million impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order; a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the now terminated proposed merger with PSEG; increased severance and severance related charges; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; reduced earnings from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and the impairment of the associated intangible asset; increased depreciation and amortization expense, primarily related to CTC amortization at PECO; higher operating and maintenance expenses, including increased nuclear refueling outage costs, increased costs associated with incremental storm damage in the PECO service territory, expenses related to stock based compensation as a result of adopting Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123 R) and the impacts of inflation; increased interest expense associated with the debt issued in March 2005 to fund Exelons pension contributions; and gains realized in 2005 on AmerGens decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes to the investment strategy. Termination of Proposed Merger with PSEG. On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into a Merger Agreement with PSEG, a public utility holding company primarily located and serving customers in New Jersey, whereby PSEG would be merged with and into Exelon (Merger). On September 14, 2006, Exelon gave formal notice to PSEG that Exelon had terminated the Merger Agreement and the companies agreed to withdraw their application for Merger approval, which had been pending before the NJBPU for more than 19 months. The notice followed a number of discussions with state officials and other interested parties, which made clear that gaps separating the parties respective settlement positions were insurmountable. Major differences included, among other things, issues relating to rate concessions and market power mitigation. During 2006, Exelon recorded Merger related expenses of approximately $93 million (pre tax), of which $55 million relates to the write off of the capitalized costs associated with the Merger. Including this $93 million of expenses, total Merger related expenses incurred since the inception of the Merger discussions were approximately $130 million. Financing Activities. During 2006, Exelon met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources, including the capital markets, and through bank borrowings. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. In addition, ComEd and PECO issued First Mortgage Bonds of $1.1 billion and $300 million, respectively, in 2006. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the credit facilities and the bond issuances. 63 Table of Contents Regulatory and Environmental Developments. The following significant regulatory and environmental developments occurred during 2006. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. ComEd Procurement Case On January 24, 2006, the ICC approved ComEds procurement case, authorizing ComEd to procure electricity after 2006 through a reverse auction competitive bidding process and to recover the costs from retail customers with no markup. The first auction took place in September 2006. As a result of the auction, ComEd has entered into supplier forward contracts with various suppliers including Generation. The ICC order is under appeal. Illinois Rate Freeze Extension Proposal In 2006 and 2007, various bills, amendments and compromise legislation were separately passed by the Illinois House and the Illinois Senate including, in the Illinois House, an extension of the Illinois transition period rate freeze with a rollback of rates to 2006 levels. However, the Illinois General Assembly adjourned on January 9, 2007 without taking further action on such bills. As a result, all pending legislation expired. ComEd believes any rate rollback and freeze legislation, if proposed again and enacted into law, would have serious detrimental effects on Illinois, ComEd and consumers of electricity. ComEd believes such legislation would violate Federal law and the U.S. Constitution, and ComEd is prepared to vigorously challenge any such legislation in court. ComEd Residential Rate Stabilization On December 20, 2006, the ICC approved a residential rate stabilization program that allows residential customers the choice to limit the impact of any rate increase over the next three years. For customers choosing to participate in the program, electric rate increases would be capped at 10% in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009. Costs that exceed the caps would be deferred and recovered over three years from 2010 to 2012. Deferred balances will be assessed an annual carrying charge of 3.25%. If ComEds rate increases are less than the caps in 2008 and 2009, ComEd would begin to recover deferred amounts up to the caps with carrying costs. This order also strongly encouraged, but did not require, ComEd to make contributions totaling $30 million to environmental and customer assistance programs. ComEd is currently evaluating this request. This order is subject to rehearing and appeal. ComEd Rate Case On July 26, 2006, the ICC issued its order in the Rate Case approving a revenue increase of approximately $8 million and the recovery of several items that previously were recorded as expense. On December 20, 2006, the ICC approved an amended order on the rehearing of the Rate Case allowing an additional revenue increase of approximately $74 million, including a partial return on the pension asset, for a total rate increase of $83 million. ComEd and various other parties have appealed the rate order to the courts. As a result of the July 26, 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded an after tax impairment charge of $776 million associated with the write off of goodwill. Nuclear Fleet Inspection In February 2006, Exelon and Generation launched an initiative across its nuclear fleet to systematically assess systems that handle tritium and take the necessary actions to minimize the risk of inadvertent discharge of tritium into the environment. The initiative was in response to the detection of tritium in water samples taken related to leaks at the Braidwood, Byron and Dresden nuclear generating stations in Illinois. On September 28, 2006, Generation announced the final results of the assessment, concluding that no active leaks had been identified at any of Generations 11 nuclear plants and no detectable tritium had been identified beyond any of the plants boundaries other than from permitted discharges, with the exception of Braidwood where past accidental tritiated water spills have been identified and state approved cleanup work continues. The assessment further concluded that none of the tritium concentrations identified in the assessment pose a health or safety threat to the public or to Generations employees or contractors. 64 Table of Contents Outlook for 2007 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell electricity beginning in 2007 is set below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there will be material adverse consequences to ComEd, including possible bankruptcy, which could result in material adverse consequences to Exelon and, in the event of a ComEd bankruptcy filing, possibly material adverse consequences to Generation. The ICCs unanimous approval of the reverse auction process, barring any adverse decision in the pending appeals or change in law, should provide ComEd with stability and greater certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to ComEds customers beginning in 2007 through a transparent market mechanism in the reverse auction competitive bidding process. PECO was subject to electric rate caps on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 and is subject to caps on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. PECOs transmission and distribution rates will continue in effect until PECO files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. There are no current proceedings to do so. PECO is, however, involved in proceedings involving annual changes in its electric and gas universal service fund cost charges, its electric CTC/intangible transition charge reconciliation mechanism, and its purchased gas cost rate, all of which are designed to fully recover PECOs applicable costs on a dollar for dollar basis. Effective January 1, 2007, in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC, PECO implemented an electric generation rate increase that will result in approximately $190 million of additional operating revenues in 2007 as compared to 2006 and a corresponding increase in purchased power from affiliate, in accordance with PECOs PPA with Generation, with no resulting impact on pre tax operating income. The impact of this rate increase on Exelon will be an increase in operating revenues and pre tax operating income of approximately $190 million. The impact on Generation will be an increase in operating revenues from affiliates and pre tax operating income of approximately $190 million. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity trading portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2007 and 2008. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. The PPA between Generation and PECO expires at the end of 2010. Current market prices for electricity have increased significantly over the past few years due to the rise in natural gas and fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates are below current wholesale energy market prices and Generations margins on sales in excess of ComEds and PECOs requirements have improved historically due to its significant capacity of low cost nuclear generating facilities. Generations ability to maintain those margins will depend on future fossil fuel prices and its ability to obtain high capacity factors at its nuclear plants. Federal and state governing bodies have begun to introduce, and in some cases approve, legislation mandating the future use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal. The extent of the use of these renewable and alternative fuel sources varies by state and could change. The future requirement to use these renewable and alternative fuel sources for some portion of ComEds and PECOs distribution sales could result in increased fuel costs and capital expenditures. 65 Table of Contents Select northeast and mid Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate carbon emissions from fossil fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and or state legislation to regulate carbon emissions could occur in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs in further limiting the emissions from certain of its fossil fuel fired facilities or in procuring emission allowance credits issued by various governing bodies. However, Exelon may benefit from stricter emission standards due to its significant nuclear capacity, which is not anticipated to be affected by the proposed emission standards. Exelon anticipates that it will be subject to the ongoing pressures of rising operating expenses due to increases in costs such as medical benefits and rising payroll costs due to inflation. Also, Exelon will continue to incur significant capital costs associated with its commitment to produce and deliver energy reliably to its customers. Increasing capital costs may include the price of uranium which fuels the nuclear facilities and continued capital investment in Exelons aging distribution infrastructure and generating facilities. Exelon is determined to operate its businesses responsibly and to appropriately manage its operating and capital costs while serving its customers and producing value for its shareholders. Exelon pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize earnings and cash flows. On September 29, 2006, Generation notified the NRC that Generation will begin the application process for a combined construction and operating license that would allow for the possible construction of a new nuclear plant at an as yet unnamed location in Texas. The filing of the letter with the NRC launches a process that preserves for Exelon the option to develop a new nuclear plant in Texas without immediately committing to the full project. Exelon has not decided to build a new nuclear plant. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision to build is made are a permanent solution to spent nuclear fuel disposal, broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant and assurances that a new plant using new technology can be financially successful. Exelon expects to submit the application to the NRC for the combined construction and operating license in 2008. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Nuclear Decommissioning (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). 66 Table of Contents SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate the fair value of its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that fair value, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at a minimum of every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above, which were prepared using year of estimate amounts, through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on a periodic basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternative and timing scenarios. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% or minus 15% over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a low level radioactive waste landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposal. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation recorded with a corresponding change to the asset retirement cost (ARC) asset. However, if an update to an ARO results in a decrease, and that unit does not have an underlying ARC, that change in the ARO may be recognized in current period earnings. Changes in the assumptions could affect future updates to the decommissioning obligation. For example, the 20 year average cost escalation rates used in the latest ARO calculation were approximately 3% to 4%. A uniform increase in these escalation rates of 25 basis points would increase the total ARO recorded by Exelon by approximately 9% or more than $300 million. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a periodic basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Conditional ARO (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) As of December 31, 2005, the Registrants adopted FIN 47. FIN 47 clarified that a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a long lived asset whose timing and or method of settlement are 67 Table of Contents conditional on a future event is within the scope of SFAS No. 143. Under FIN 47, the Registrants are required to record a conditional ARO at its estimated fair value if that fair value can be reasonably estimated. The adoption of FIN 47 required the Registrants to update an existing inventory, originally created for the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and to determine which, if any, of the conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated. The ability to reasonably estimate a conditional ARO was a matter of management judgment, based upon managements ability to estimate a settlement date or range of settlement dates, a method or potential method of settlement and probabilities associated with the potential dates and methods of settlement of its conditional AROs. In determining whether their conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated, management considered the Registrants past practices, industry practices, managements intent and the estimated economic lives of the assets. The fair values of the conditional AROs were then estimated using an expected present value technique. Additionally, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assessed the likelihood of recovering these obligations from customers which led to the recognition of regulatory assets. Changes in managements assumptions regarding settlement dates, settlement methods, assigned probabilities or recovery mechanisms could have a material effect on the liabilities recorded by each Registrant and the associated regulatory assets recorded at Exelon, ComEd and PECO. The liabilities associated with conditional AROs will be adjusted on a periodic basis due to the passage of time, new laws and regulations and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimates of undiscounted cash flows. These adjustments could have a significant impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Operations of the Registrants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of FIN 47, see Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill which relates to the acquisition of ComEd under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill might be impaired, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires managements judgments, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Due to the significant negative impact of the ICCs July 26, 2006 order in ComEds Rate Case to the future cash flows and value of ComEd, an interim impairment assessment was completed during the third quarter of 2006. Based on the results of ComEds interim goodwill impairment analysis, Exelon and ComEd recorded an impairment charge of $776 million associated with the write off of the goodwill. Exelon and ComEd performed their annual goodwill impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of 2006 and determined that goodwill was not further impaired. Future developments relating to ComEds ongoing regulatory and or legislative items could also be relevant to future goodwill impairment analyses and may lead to further impairments, which could be material. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Rate Case. In the assessments, Exelon and ComEd estimated the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. Additionally, ComEds estimate of its fair value was compared to a fair value estimate determined by a third party valuation firm. Changes in assumptions regarding variables, including post 2006 rate regulatory structure, ComEds capital structure, changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, operating and 68 Table of Contents capital expenditure requirements and other factors, or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of 10% in ComEds expected discounted cash flows would result in additional impairment for both ComEd and Exelon of approximately $800 million. An additional impairment would require Exelon and ComEd to further reduce both goodwill and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Investments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO had investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2006. The Registrants consider investments to be impaired when a decline in fair value below cost is judged to be other than temporary. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, the Registrants evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, as well as their intent and ability to hold the investment. The Registrants may also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee when reviewing an investment for impairment. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the investment and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Beginning in 2006, and in connection with the issuance of FASB Staff Position FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (FSP 115 1), Generation considers all nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments in an unrealized loss position to be other than temporarily impaired. As a result of certain NRC restrictions, Generation is unable to demonstrate its ability and intent to hold the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments through a recovery period and, accordingly, recognizes any unrealized holding losses immediately. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of property, plant and equipment recorded and the depreciation charged to the financial statements. Historically, Generation has extended the estimated service lives of the nuclear fuel generating facilities based upon Generations intent to apply for license renewals for these facilities. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that 69 Table of Contents would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. The impact of the new rates was not material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for essentially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and BSC employees, except for those employees of Generations wholly owned subsidiary, AmerGen, who participate in the separate AmerGen sposored defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement welfare benefit plan. See Note 14 Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon and AmerGen utilize assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the remaining service period, rate of compensation increases and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs, in order to measure the plan obligations and costs to be recognized related to these plans. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.00% for 2006, 2005, and 2004. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 8.15% and 8.30% in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and a range of 8.33% to 8.35% in 2004. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The average remaining service period of defined pension plan participants was 13.5 years, 13.8 years and 15.1 years for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 7.3 years, 7.5 years and 8.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 10.3 years, 10.9 years and 11.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rate for determining the pension benefit obligations was 5.90%, 5.60% and 5.75% at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rate for determining the other postretirement benefit obligations was 5.85%, 5.60% and 5.75% at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rate at December 31, 2004 was selected by reference to the Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index adjusted to reflect the duration of expected future cash flows for pension and other postretirement benefit payments. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the discount rate was 70 Table of Contents determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of more than 400 Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon will use a discount rate and EROA of 5.90% and 8.75%, respectively, for estimating its 2007 pension costs. Additionally, Exelon will use a discount rate and expected return on plan assets of 5.85% and 7.87%, respectively, for estimating its 2007 other postretirement benefit costs. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2006 Impact on Pension Liability at December 31, 2006 Impact on 2007 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 720 $ 720 $ 57 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 47 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2006 Impact on Postretirement Benefit Liability at December 31, 2006 Impact on 2007 Postretirement Benefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 225 $ 225 $ 26 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 7 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens postretirement benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2006 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2006 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2006 Impact on 2006 TotalService and Interest CostComponents Increase assumed health care cost trend by 1% $ 45 $ 418 Decrease assumed health care cost trend by 1% (37 ) (345 ) Extending the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2012 to 2017 would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2006 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2006 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on OtherPostretirement Benefit Obligation atDecember 31, 2006 Impact on2006 Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2012 to 2017 $ 234 $ 22 71 Table of Contents The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2006, the income statement gain could have been as much as $2.3 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that ComEd could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Similarly, at December 31, 2006, the income statement charge could have been as much as $3.7 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that PECO could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. In that event, Exelon would record an income statement gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and or PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against other comprehensive income of up to $1.4 billion (before taxes) related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which would be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 4, 8 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction where they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd, PECO) The Registrants may enter into derivatives to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation utilizes derivatives with respect to energy transactions to the utilization of its available generating capability and the supply of wholesale energy to its affiliates. Generation 72 Table of Contents also utilizes energy option contracts and energy financial swap arrangements to limit the market price risk exposure associated with forward energy commodity prices. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for trading purposes. ComEd has derivatives related to one wholesale contract and certain other contracts to manage the market price exposures to several wholesale contracts that extend into 2007, which is beyond the expiration of ComEds PPA with Generation. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133). Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Derivatives recorded at fair value on the balance sheet are presented as current or noncurrent mark to market derivative assets or liabilities. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction occur. Amounts recorded in earnings are included in revenue, purchased power or fuel in the consolidated statements of income. Cash inflows and outflows related to derivative instruments are included as a component of operating, investing or financing cash flows in the statement of cash flows, depending on the underlying nature of the Registrants hedged items. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon the assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery of the underlying item. If it was determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren procurement auctions. As a result of the expiration of Generations PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006 and the results of the auctions, beginning in 2007, Generation will sell more power through bilateral agreements with other new and existing counterparties. ComEd also entered into agreements with thirteen other suppliers as part of the auction. Generations and ComEds agreements meet the normal purchases and normal sales exception. Energy Contracts. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When 73 Table of Contents external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Normal Operations and Hedging Activities for further information regarding sensitivity analysis related to market price exposure. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants use external dealer prices and or internal valuation models that utilize assumptions of available market pricing curves. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on the liabilities and expenses in their financial statements. Taxation The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2006 reflect the probable expected outcome of pending tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements a replacement of FASB Concepts Statement No. 3 (incorporating an amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2), the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. 74 Table of Contents The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon and Generation have a reserve for asbestos related bodily injury claims for open claims presented to Generation as of December 31, 2006 and for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030 based on actuarial assumptions and analysis. Exelons and Generations management each determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims beyond 2030 based on the historical claims data available and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating the future losses, management and the actuaries made various assumptions, including but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that related to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelon plans to obtain annual updates of the estimate of future losses. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon historical experience and third party actuarial studies. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. Management cautions, however, that these estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Severance Accounting (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with the Registrants and compensation level. The Registrants accrue severance benefits that are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in estimating severance charges is the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. The Registrants base their estimates on their current plans and ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate their businesses. The Registrants may incur further severance costs if they identify additional positions to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Stock Based Compensation Cost (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) On January 1, 2006, Exelon adopted SFAS No. 123 R, which requires that compensation cost relating to share based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. That cost is measured on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments at the date of grant and amortized over the vesting period. The fair value of stock options on the date of grant is estimated using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model, which requires assumptions such as dividends yield, expected volatility, risk free interest rate, expected life and forfeiture rate. The fair value of performance share awards granted in 2006 was estimated using historical data for the previous two plan years and a Monte Carlo simulation model for the current plan year, which requires assumptions regarding Exelons 75 Table of Contents total shareholder return relative to certain stock market indices and the stock beta and volatility of Exelons common stock and all stocks represented in these indices. If the actual results of the cash settled performance share awards differ significantly from the estimates, the Consolidated Financial Statements could be materially affected. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Generations revenue from service agreements, such as the nuclear Operating Service Agreement with PSEG Nuclear, is dependent upon when the services are rendered. Service agreements representing a cost recovery arrangement are presented gross within revenues for the amounts due from the party receiving the service, and the costs associated with providing the service are presented within operating and maintenance expenses. 76 Table of Contents Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Results of Operations Exelon 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 298 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 5,232 5,670 438 Operating and maintenance 3,868 3,694 (174 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 1,487 1,334 (153 ) Taxes other than income 771 728 (43 ) Total operating expenses 12,134 12,633 499 Operating income 3,521 2,724 797 Other income and deductions Interest expense (616 ) (513 ) (103 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (264 ) (316 ) 52 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (111 ) (134 ) 23 Other, net 266 134 132 Total other income and deductions (725 ) (829 ) 104 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,796 1,895 901 Income taxes 1,206 944 (262 ) Income from continuing operations 1,590 951 639 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 2 14 (12 ) Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,592 965 627 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 42 Net income $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 0.99 Net Income. Exelons net income for 2006 reflects higher realized prices on market sales and increased nuclear output at Generation; a one time benefit of approximately $158 million to recover previously incurred severance costs approved by the December 2006 amended ICC rate order; a one time benefit of approximately $130 million to recover certain costs approved by the July 2006 ICC rate order; a decrease in Generations nuclear ARO resulting from changes in managements assessment of the probabilities associated with the anticipated timing of cash flows to decommission primarily AmerGen nuclear plants; unrealized mark to market gains; increased electric revenues at PECO associated with certain authorized rate increases; and increased kWh deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, reflecting load growth at ComEd and PECO. These increases were partially offset by a $776 million impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill; unfavorable weather conditions in both the ComEd and PECO service territories; a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased severance and severance related charges; losses from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities; increased depreciation and amortization expense, including CTC amortization at PECO; and higher operating and maintenance expenses including increased costs associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory, increased nuclear refueling outage costs, increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R, and the impacts of 77 Table of Contents inflation. Exelons net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1.2 billion associated with ComEds goodwill; unrealized mark to market losses; losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47; favorable tax settlements at Generation and PECO; and gains realized on AmerGens decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation due to an increase in market prices; higher nuclear output; electric rate increases at PECO; and higher kWh deliveries at ComEd and PECO, excluding the effects of weather. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to lower volumes of power purchased in the market and decreased fossil generation, partially offset by overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply in 2006 compared to 22% for 2005. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased nuclear refueling outage costs; increased severance and severance related charges; increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R; and the impacts from inflation. These increases were partially offset by a one time benefit of $201 million to recover certain costs approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order and the ICCs December 2006 amended rate order; the impact of the reduction in Generations estimated nuclear asset retirement obligation; mark to market gains associated with Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities; and a charge for a reserve recorded by Generation in 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2006, ComEd recorded a $776 million impairment charge associated with its goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. During 2005, in connection with the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment, ComEd recorded a $1.2 billion charge. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to additional CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to a reduction in 2005 of previously established real estate tax reserves at PECO and Generation and a net increase in utility revenue taxes at ComEd and PECO in 2006, partially offset by favorable state franchise tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects increased interest expense associated with the debt issued in 2005 to fund Exelons voluntary pension contribution; higher interest rates on variable rate debt outstanding; higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for pre 1983 spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE; an interest payment to the IRS associated with the settlement of a tax matter at Generation; and a one time benefit of $87 million approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order to recover previously incurred debt expenses to retire debt early . Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 43.1% for 2006 compared to 49.8% for 2005. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income 78 Table of Contents tax rate from continuing operations by 9.7% and 22.3% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. The results of Sithe are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $12 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2006 and 2005 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 294 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (142 ) (2 ) (140 ) Total $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 639 (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,128 $ 279 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 965 $ 627 (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 79 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 ComEd (112 ) (685 ) 573 PECO 441 517 (76 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 3,978 4,482 504 Operating and maintenance 2,305 2,288 (17 ) Depreciation and amortization 279 254 (25 ) Taxes other than income 185 170 (15 ) Total operating expenses 6,747 7,194 447 Operating income 2,396 1,852 544 Other income and deductions Interest expense (159 ) (128 ) (31 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (1 ) (8 ) Other, net 41 95 (54 ) Total other income and deductions (127 ) (34 ) (93 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,269 1,818 451 Income taxes 866 709 (157 ) Income from continuing operations 1,403 1,109 294 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income from discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,407 1,128 279 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 30 Net income $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 Net Income. Generations net income for 2006 compared to 2005 increased due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense, higher depreciation expense, higher interest expense and lower other income. The increase in Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense was due to realized revenues associated with forward sales contracts entered into in prior periods which were recognized at higher prices, combined with lower purchased power and fuel expense due to the impact of higher 80 Table of Contents nuclear output. Unlike the energy delivery business, the effects of unusually warm or cold weather on Generation depend on the nature of its market position at the time of the unusual weather. Generations net income for 2006 and 2005 reflects income from discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (after tax), respectively. Operating Revenues. For 2006 and 2005, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,674 $ 4,775 $ (101 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,640 3,341 299 8.9 % Total energy sales revenue 8,314 8,116 198 2.4 % Retail gas sales 540 613 (73 ) (11.9 )% Trading portfolio 14 17 (3 ) (17.6 )% Other revenue (a) 275 300 (25 ) (8.3 )% Total revenue $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 1.1 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales, operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. Sales (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 119,354 121,961 (2,607 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 71,326 72,376 (1,050 ) (1.5 )% Total sales 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% Trading volumes of 31,692 GWhs and 26,924 GWhs for 2006 and 2005, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates decreased $101 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $95 million decrease from lower electric sales volume, as well as a net $6 million decrease resulting from lower prices. In the ComEd territories, lower volumes resulted in a $115 million decrease in revenues as a result of lower demand resulting from milder weather year over year. In addition, price decreases totaling $128 million were a result of lower peak prices under the ComEd PPA. In the PECO territories, the higher volumes resulted in increased revenues of $20 million due to higher usage. The favorable price variance of $122 million was primarily the result of the scheduled PAPUC approved generation rate increase as well as to a lesser degree a change in the mix of average pricing related to the PPA with PECO. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase will take effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will have a favorable effect on Generations operating income in future years. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Price $ 353 Volume (54 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 299 81 Table of Contents Wholesale and retail sales increased $299 million due to an increase in realized revenues associated with forward sales entered into in prior periods, which were recognized at higher prices for the year ended December 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, offset by a reduction in volumes sold into the market as a result of lower supply. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales decreased $73 million primarily due to lower volumes for 2006 compared to 2005, resulting in a $69 million decrease. Additionally, there was a decrease of $4 million due to lower realized prices for 2006 compared to 2005. Other revenues. The decrease in 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in fossil fuel sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,610 137,936 1,674 1.2 % Purchases non trading portfolio 38,297 42,623 (4,326 ) (10.1 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 12,773 13,778 (1,005 ) (7.3 )% Total supply 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: (in millions) Price Volume Increase (Decrease) Purchased power costs $ (81 ) $ (319 ) $ (400 ) Generation costs 38 4 42 Fuel resale costs 34 (65 ) (31 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. (115 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (504 ) n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation experienced a decrease of $319 million due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market as a result of a lower demand from affiliates. Additionally, overall lower prices paid for purchased power in 2006 compared to 2005 resulted in a $81 million decrease. Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel costs for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increased prices related to nuclear and fossil fuel generation, resulting in a $38 million increase. Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs in 2006 compared to 2005 were a result of a $65 million decrease in the retail gas business resulting from lower volumes, partially offset by overall higher prices paid for gas. Mark to market. Mark to market gains on power derivative activities were $180 million in 2006 compared to losses of $12 million in 2005. Mark to market losses on fuel derivative activities were $77 million in 2006 compared to zero in 2005. 82 Table of Contents Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2006 and 2005 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2006 2005 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 39.16 $ 39.15 n.m. Wholesale and retail electric sales 51.03 46.16 10.6 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 43.60 41.76 4.4 % Average electric supply cost (a) excluding the trading portfolio $ 18.02 $ 20.11 (10.4 )% Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 25.58 $ 21.65 18.2 % (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. n.m. Not meaningful Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2006 2005 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.85 $ 13.03 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. Although total refueling outage days increased during 2006 compared to 2005, the nuclear fleet capacity factor for the Generation operating nuclear fleet increased due to fewer non refueling outage days during 2006 compared to 2005. For 2006 and 2005, non refueling outage days totaled 71 and 112, respectively, and refueling outage days totaled 237 and 217, respectively. Higher costs for nuclear fuel, costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days, higher costs for refueling outage inspection and maintenance activities, costs for the tritium related expenses, an NRC fee increase, and inflationary cost increases for normal plant operations and maintenance offset the higher number of MWhs generated resulting in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2006 as compared to 2005. There were ten planned refueling outages and sixteen non refueling outages during 2006 compared to nine planned refueling outages and twenty five non refueling outages during 2005 at the Generation operated nuclear stations. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Pension, payroll and benefit costs $ 153 Contractor expenses 22 Nuclear refueling outage costs including the co owned Salem plant 19 NRC fees 11 Godley contribution 11 Tritium related expense 9 Reduction in ARO (a) (149 ) 2005 accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (b) (43 ) 2005 co owner settlement with PSEG related to postretirement benefits (17 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 17 (a) For further discussion, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) For further discussion, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 83 Table of Contents The $17 million increase in operating and maintenance expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a $153 million increase in various payroll related expenses, including increased stock based compensation expense of $41 million primarily as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R as of January 1, 2006 and increased direct and allocated costs related to payroll, severance, pension and other postretirement benefits, a $22 million period over period increase in contractor costs, primarily related to staff augmentation and recurring maintenance work at Nuclear and Power, a $19 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days during 2006 as compared to 2005, and higher costs for inspection and maintenance activities. Additionally, on December 22, 2006, as a gesture of goodwill and corporate citizenship, Generation contributed approximately $11 million into an escrow account to assist the Godley Public Water District with the installation of a new public drinking water system for the Village of Godley. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 was a result of recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income incurred during 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to increasing the property tax reserve for 2006 property taxes for Byron, Clinton and Dresden, higher payroll related taxes which were the result of higher payroll costs for 2006 and a reduction recorded in 2005 of a previously established real estate reserve associated with the settlement over the TMI real estate assessment. The increases were partially offset by a sales and use tax reserve recorded during the third quarter of 2005 and a gas revenue tax adjustment recorded during the fourth quarter of 2005. Interest Expense. The increase in interest expense during 2006 as compared to 2005 was attributable to higher variable interest rates on debt outstanding, higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE and an interest payment made to the IRS in settlement of a tax matter. Other, Net. The decrease in other income in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to gains realized in the second quarter of 2005 totaling $36 million related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants due to changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 38.2% for 2006 compared to 39.0% for 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe have been presented as discontinued operations within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Generations net income in 2006 and 2005 reflects a gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (both after tax), respectively. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $15 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the second quarter of 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications, accrued interest and collections on receivables arising from the sale of Sithe that had been fully reserved. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 84 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 3,292 3,520 228 Operating and maintenance 745 833 88 Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 430 413 (17 ) Taxes other than income 303 303 Total operating expense 5,546 6,276 730 Operating income (loss) 555 (12 ) 567 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (308 ) (291 ) (17 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (10 ) (14 ) 4 Other, net 96 4 92 Total other income and deductions (222 ) (301 ) 79 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 333 (313 ) 646 Income taxes 445 363 (82 ) Loss before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (112 ) (676 ) 564 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) 9 Net loss $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 573 Net Loss. ComEds decreased net loss in 2006 compared to 2005 was driven by a smaller impairment of goodwill in 2006, lower purchased power expense and one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July 2006 and December 2006 ICC rate orders as more fully described below, partially offset by lower operating revenues. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Weather $ (226 ) Customer choice (67 ) Volume 84 Rate changes and mix 23 Retail revenue (186 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 28 Mark to market contracts (5 ) Other revenues 23 Decrease in operating revenues $ (163 ) Weather. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months 85 Table of Contents and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather in non summer months reduces demand. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 20% and 8% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2006, one competitive electric generation supplier had been granted approval to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, they are not currently supplying electricity to any residential customers. For 2006 and 2005, 23% and 21%, respectively, of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. Most of the customers previously receiving energy under the PPO are now electing either to buy their power from a competitive electric generation supplier or from ComEd under bundled rates. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 20,787 19,310 Percentage of total retail deliveries 23 % 21 % Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 20,300 21,300 Percentage of total retail customers (b ) (b ) Volume (GWhs) (a) 25,521 30,905 Percentage of total retail deliveries 28 % 33 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Volume. Revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers. Rate changes and mix. The increase in revenue related to rate and mix changes represents differences in year over year consumption between various customer classes offset by a decline in the CTC paid by customers of competitive electric generation suppliers due to the increase in market energy prices. The average rate paid by various customers is dependent on the amount and time of day that the power is consumed. Changes in customer consumption patterns, including increased usage, can result in an overall decrease in the average rate even though the tariff or rate schedule remains unchanged. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Starting in January 2007, ComEd began collecting revenues consistent with the approved ICC orders in the Procurement Case and the Rate Case. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. The wholesale and miscellaneous revenues increase primarily reflects an increase in transmission revenue reflecting increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Mark to market contracts. Mark to market contracts primarily reflect a mark to market loss associated with one wholesale contract that had previously been recorded as a normal sale under SFAS No. 133 in 2005. This contract expires in December 2007. 86 Table of Contents Purchased Power Expense. The changes in purchased power expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Prices $ (135 ) Weather (111 ) Customer choice (56 ) PJM transmission (6 ) Volume 42 SECA rates 38 Decrease in purchased power expense $ (228 ) Prices. Purchased power decreased due to the decrease in contracted energy prices under the PPA that ComEd had with Generation. The PPA contract was entered into in March 2004 and reflected forward power prices in existence at that time. The PPA terminated at the end of 2006 and was replaced with the reverse auction process in 2007, which was approved by the ICC. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Weather. The decrease in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Customer choice. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. PJM transmission. The decrease in PJM transmission expense reflects a decrease in ancillary charges, partially offset by increased peak demand and consumption by ComEd supplied customers. Volume. The amount of purchased power attributable to volume increased as a result of increased usage by ComEd supplied customers on a weather normalized basis versus the same period in 2005. SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. These charges were being collected subject to refund as they are being disputed. As a result of current events related to SECA disputes, during the first quarter of 2006, ComEd increased its reserve for amounts to be refunded. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. As ComEd was a net collector of SECA charges, the 2005 purchased power expense, which reflected a full year of SECA collections, was lower than 2006, which reflected only three months of SECA collections, due to the expiration of SECA charges on March 31, 2006. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the SECA rates. 87 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ (201 ) Fringe benefits (b) 43 Severance related expenses 17 Wages and salaries 17 Customers Affordable Reliable Energy (CARE) program (c) 9 Environmental costs 5 Rent and lease expense 5 Storm costs 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Other 11 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (88 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC order on rehearing, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses, including MGP costs, severance costs and procurement case costs. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits, including increased stock based compensation expense of $24 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006 and increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs of $14 million. (c) See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2006 annual goodwill impairment assessment (performed in the fourth quarter) resulted in no additional impairment. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd had approximately $2.7 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds PPA with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 12 Other amortization expense 5 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 17 88 Table of Contents In 2007, ComEds amortization will reflect the elimination of the recoverable transition costs regulatory asset and the initial amortization of the various regulatory assets authorized by the ICC in its July and December 2006 orders. See Notes 4, 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income remained constant in 2006 compared to 2005. Interest Expense, Net. The increase in interest expense, net in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily resulted from higher debt balances and higher interest rates. In 2007, ComEds interest expense, net will reflect the initial amortization of the regulatory asset related to the early debt retirement costs authorized by the ICC in its July 2006 order. See Notes 4, 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 87 Loss on settlement of 2005 cash flow swaps 15 Sale of receivable in 2005 (3 ) Loss on disposition of assets and investments, net (3 ) Other (4 ) Increase in other, net $ 92 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded a one time benefit associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. See Notes 4, 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 133.6% and (116.0)% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income tax rate by 81.6% in 2006 and decreased the effective income tax rate by 135.0% in 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 89 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 28,330 30,042 (1,712 ) (5.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 24,122 21,378 2,744 12.8 % Large commercial & industrial 10,336 7,904 2,432 30.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,254 2,133 121 5.7 % Total full service 65,042 61,457 3,585 5.8 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 2,475 5,591 (3,116 ) (55.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 2,259 6,004 (3,745 ) (62.4 )% 4,734 11,595 (6,861 ) (59.2 )% Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,505 5,677 (172 ) (3.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 15,282 13,633 1,649 12.1 % 20,787 19,310 1,477 7.6 % Total PPO and delivery only 25,521 30,905 (5,384 ) (17.4 )% Total retail deliveries 90,563 92,362 (1,799 ) (1.9 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,453 $ 2,584 $ (131 ) (5.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,882 1,671 211 12.6 % Large commercial & industrial 563 408 155 38.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 137 132 5 3.8 % Total full service 5,035 4,795 240 5.0 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 178 385 (207 ) (53.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 137 345 (208 ) (60.3 )% 315 730 (415 ) (56.8 )% Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 85 95 (10 ) (10.5 )% Large commercial & industrial 155 156 (1 ) (0.6 )% 240 251 (11 ) (4.4 )% Total PPO and delivery only 555 981 (426 ) (43.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 5,590 5,776 (186 ) (3.2 )% Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 516 488 28 5.7 % Mark to market contracts (5 ) (5 ) n.m. Total operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) (2.6 )% (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. 90 Table of Contents (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC through December 2006. (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC through December 2006. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. n.m. Not meaningful Results of Operations PECO 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 258 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 2,702 2,515 (187 ) Operating and maintenance 628 549 (79 ) Depreciation and amortization 710 566 (144 ) Taxes other than income 262 231 (31 ) Total operating expense 4,302 3,861 (441 ) Operating income 866 1,049 (183 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (266 ) (279 ) 13 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (16 ) 7 Other, net 30 13 17 Total other income and deductions (245 ) (282 ) 37 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 621 767 (146 ) Income taxes 180 247 67 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 441 520 (79 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) 3 Net income 441 517 (76 ) Preferred stock dividends 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 437 $ 513 $ (76 ) Net Income. PECOs net income in 2006 decreased primarily due to higher CTC amortization and higher operating and maintenance expense, which reflected higher storm costs. Partially offsetting these factors were higher revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense. Higher net revenues reflected certain authorized electric rate increases, including a scheduled CTC rate increase, partially offset by lower net electric and gas revenues as a result of unfavorable weather relative to the prior year. The increases in CTC amortization expense and CTC rates were in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC. The increase in CTC amortization expense exceeded the increase in CTC revenues. 91 Table of Contents Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Rate increases $ 237 $ 127 $ 364 Customer choice 62 62 Unbilled revenue change in estimate 35 35 Volume 20 (10 ) 10 Weather (91 ) (130 ) (221 ) Other rate changes and mix (10 ) (10 ) Retail revenue 253 (13 ) 240 Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 26 (8 ) 18 Increase (decrease) in operating revenues $ 279 $ (21 ) $ 258 Rate increases. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases reflects scheduled CTC and generation rate increases in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC and the elimination of the aggregate $200 million electric distribution rate reductions over the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005 (approximately $40 million in 2005) related to the PAPUCs approval of the merger between PECO and ComEd. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase took effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will not affect operating income as PECO will incur corresponding and offsetting purchased power expenses under its PPA with Generation. The increase in gas revenues was due to net increases in rates through PAPUC approved quarterly changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was 30% higher than the average rate for the same period in 2005. While PECOs average purchased gas cost rate was higher in 2006 compared to 2005, quarterly changes to purchased gas cost rates since March 1, 2006 have resulted in decreases to the rates, with the September 1, 2006 and December 1, 2006 rate decreases resulting in lower rates in 2006 compared to comparable periods in 2005. This trend will continue into the first quarter of 2007, during the peak of PECOs winter heating season, as first quarter 2007 rates will be significantly lower than first quarter 2006 rates. Customer choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. For 2006 and 2005, 2% and 5%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 34,400 44,500 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 3 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 767 2,094 Percentage of total retail deliveries 2 % 5 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). 92 Table of Contents The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice reflected customers from all customer classes returning to PECO as their electric supplier as a result of rising wholesale energy prices and a number of competitive electric generation suppliers exiting the market during 2005 and 2006. Unbilled revenue change in estimate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, PECO recorded a $35 million increase to unbilled electric revenues associated with a change in estimate in the amount of revenue recognized, although unbilled, at the end of 2006. As discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, the nature of the unbilled revenue calculation is inherently an estimation process. As a result of Exelons integration efforts associated with its then pending merger with PSEG, analyses received from a third party consultant, and PECOs implementation of a new customer information management system in the fourth quarter 2006, PECO received new information with which to better analyze the data underlying its unbilled revenue calculation. This amount is partially offset by a $14 million increase in purchased power expense as noted below. Volume. The increase in electric revenues was primarily as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, primarily due to an increased number of customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating and cooling degree days were 18% and 15% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Other rate changes and mix. The decrease in electric revenues attributable to other rate changes and mix was primarily due to increased large commercial and industrial sales, which are billed at lower rates relative to other customer classes, and lower rates for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were lower in the latter part of 2006 relative to 2005. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. The increase in electric revenues was primarily due to increased PJM transmission revenue and increased sales of energy into the PJM spot market. If PECOs energy needs are less than the daily amount scheduled, the excess is sold into the PJM spot market. Revenues from these sales are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas revenues was due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Prices $ 94 $ 127 $ 221 Customer choice 62 62 PJM transmission 31 31 Unbilled revenue change in estimate 14 14 Weather (39 ) (107 ) (146 ) Volume 4 (13 ) (9 ) Other 20 (6 ) 14 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 186 $ 1 $ 187 93 Table of Contents Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased $87 million corresponding to the increase in electric revenues which was attributable to the scheduled PAPUC approved generation rate increase. In addition, PECOs purchased power expense increased $7 million due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher average gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to customers from all customer classes returning to PECO as their electric supplier, primarily as a result of rising wholesale energy prices and a number of competitive electric generation suppliers exiting the market during 2005 and 2006. PJM transmission. The increase in PJM transmission expense reflects increased peak demand and consumption by PECO supplied customers due to load growth as well as an increase in PECO supplied customers driven by more customers choosing PECO for supply due to competitive electric generation suppliers higher market prices. Unbilled revenue change in estimate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, PECO recorded a $14 million increase to purchased power associated with a change in estimate for unbilled electric revenue as the energy component of the estimate change is passed onto Generation. Weather. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to lower demand as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Volume. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was primarily due to an increased number of customers. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Other. The increase in electric purchased power expense was primarily due to increased energy purchases in the PJM spot market. If PECOs energy needs are greater than the daily amount scheduled, the shortfall is secured through purchases in the PJM spot market. These additional costs are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas fuel expense was related to decreased off system sales. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Storm costs $ 36 Contractors (a) 14 Allowance for uncollectible accounts (b) 13 Fringe benefits (c) 11 Severance related expenses 6 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Injuries and damages (6 ) Environmental reserve (d) (4 ) Other 7 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 79 (a) Reflects higher professional fees, including $9 million associated with tax consulting, and various other increases. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding tax consulting fees. 94 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the following factors, all of which increased expense in 2006 as compared to 2005: (i) higher average accounts receivable balances in 2006 compared to 2005 resulting from increased revenues; (ii) changes in PAPUC approved regulations related to customer payment terms; and (iii) an increase in the number of low income customers participating in customer assistance programs, which allow for the forgiveness of certain receivables. (c) Reflects increased stock based compensation expense of $11 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006. (d) Represents a settlement related to one Superfund site in the first quarter of 2006. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) CTC amortization (a) $ 146 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (4 ) Other depreciation and amortization expense 2 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 144 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The new system was implemented in the fourth quarter 2006. Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 14 State franchise tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (b) 10 Real estate tax adjustment in 2005 (c) 6 Sales and use tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (2 ) Other 3 Increase in taxes other than income $ 31 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 of $7 million following settlements related to prior year tax assessments and the $17 million reduction of an accrual in 2005 related to prior years. (c) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in 2005 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to scheduled payments on long term debt owed to PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with the September 2006 issuance of $300 million First Mortgage Bonds, higher interest rates on variable rate long term debt and an increased amount of commercial paper outstanding at higher rates. Other, Net. The increase in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to interest income associated with an investment tax credit refund of $11 million and interest income associated with a research and development credit refund of $10 million in 2006. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of other, net. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement for additional information regarding the investment tax credit and research and development credit refunds. 95 Table of Contents Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in net interest expense of PETT due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 29.0% for 2006 compared to 32.2% for 2005. The lower effective tax rate in 2006 reflects investment tax credit and research and development credit refunds in 2006. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 12,796 13,135 (339 ) (2.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 7,818 7,263 555 7.6 % Large commercial & industrial 15,898 15,205 693 4.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 906 962 (56 ) (5.8 )% Total full service 37,418 36,565 853 2.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 61 334 (273 ) (81.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 671 1,257 (586 ) (46.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 35 503 (468 ) (93.0 )% Total delivery only 767 2,094 (1,327 ) (63.4 )% Total retail deliveries 38,185 38,659 (474 ) (1.2 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,780 $ 1,705 $ 75 4.4 % Small commercial & industrial 943 818 125 15.3 % Large commercial & industrial 1,286 1,173 113 9.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 83 84 (1 ) (1.2 )% Total full service 4,092 3,780 312 8.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 5 25 (20 ) (80.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 36 63 (27 ) (42.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 1 13 (12 ) (92.3 )% Total delivery only 42 101 (59 ) (58.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,134 3,881 253 6.5 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 238 212 26 12.3 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,372 $ 4,093 $ 279 6.8 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. 96 Table of Contents (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales 50,578 59,751 (9,173 ) (15.4 )% Transportation 25,527 25,310 217 0.9 % Total 76,105 85,061 (8,956 ) (10.5 )% Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 770 $ 783 $ (13 ) (1.7 )% Transportation 16 16 % Resales and other 10 18 (8 ) (44.4 )% Total gas revenue $ 796 $ 817 $ (21 ) (2.6 )% Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Results of OperationsExelon 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 1,224 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel expense 5,670 4,929 (741 ) Operating and maintenance expense 3,694 3,700 6 Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,334 1,295 (39 ) Taxes other than income 728 710 (18 ) Total operating expenses 12,633 10,634 (1,999 ) Operating income 2,724 3,499 (775 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (513 ) (471 ) (42 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (316 ) (357 ) 41 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (134 ) (154 ) 20 Other, net 134 60 74 Total other income and deductions (829 ) (922 ) 93 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,895 2,577 (682 ) Income taxes 944 713 (231 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 951 1,864 (913 ) Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 951 1,870 (919 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 14 (29 ) 43 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 965 1,841 (876 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 23 (65 ) Net income $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) Diluted earnings per share $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ (1.42 ) 97 Table of Contents Net Income. Net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1.2 billion associated with ComEds goodwill and losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47, partially offset by higher realized prices on market sales at Generation and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoption of FIN 46 R. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to increased revenues at ComEd and PECO and increased revenues from non affiliates at Generation. The increase in revenues at ComEd and PECO was primarily due to favorable weather conditions, an increase in the number of customers choosing ComEd or PECO as their electric supplier and higher transmission revenues, partially offset by decreased CTC collections at ComEd. The increase in revenues from non affiliates at Generation was primarily due to higher prices on energy sold in the market, partially offset by an increase in the percentage of energy produced and sold to ComEd and PECO and the sale of Boston Generating in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased primarily due to overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices, partially offset by the decrease in fuel expense due to the sale of Boston Generating in 2004, favorable mark to market adjustments related to non trading activities and the expiration of the PPA with Midwest Generation in 2004. Purchased power represented 22% of Generations total supply in 2005 compared to 24% in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a gain recorded in 2004 related to the DOE settlement, an increase to the reserve for the estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims that was recorded in 2005, higher costs associated with planned nuclear refueling outages, and increased costs related to an operating agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc. (formerly Sithe International, Inc.), partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and decreased severance and benefit expense. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2005, in connection with the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment, ComEd recorded a $1.2 billion charge. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service, additional amortization of the CTC at PECO and accelerated amortization of PECOs current customer information and billing system, partially offset by the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units in 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, operating and maintenance expense, impairment of goodwill and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was the result of increased taxes other than income, partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and reduced property tax expense. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects a 2004 charge at ComEd associated with the accelerated retirement of debt and the related reduction in interest expense from these debt retirements and increased realized gains related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, partially offset by increased interest expense on short term debt at Exelon, increased losses from Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities and an $85 million gain recorded in 2004 on the sale of Boston Generating. 98 Table of Contents Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 49.8% for 2005 compared to 27.7% for 2004. The goodwill impairment charge increased the effective income tax rate from continuing operations by 22.3% for 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises and AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe, certain Enterprises businesses and AllEnergy as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe. The results of Sithe and AllEnergy are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations increased by $43 million from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2005 and 2004 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,109 $ 657 $ 452 ComEd (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Other (a) (2 ) 82 (84 ) Total $ 951 $ 1,870 $ (919 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,128 $ 641 $ 487 ComEd (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Other (a) (7 ) 69 (76 ) Total $ 965 $ 1,841 $ (876 ) 99 Table of Contents (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 ComEd (685 ) 676 (1,361 ) PECO 517 455 62 Other (a) (7 ) 60 (67 ) Total $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 4,482 4,011 (471 ) Operating and maintenance 2,288 2,201 (87 ) Depreciation and amortization 254 286 32 Taxes other than income 170 166 (4 ) Total operating expenses 7,194 6,664 (530 ) Operating income 1,852 1,039 813 Other income and deductions Interest expense (128 ) (103 ) (25 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (1 ) (14 ) 13 Other, net 95 130 (35 ) Total other income and deductions (34 ) 13 (47 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,818 1,052 766 Income taxes 709 401 (308 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 1,109 651 458 Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 1,109 657 452 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (16 ) 16 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 19 19 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (16 ) 35 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,128 641 487 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 32 (62 ) Net income $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 100 Table of Contents Net Income. Generations net income in 2005 increased $425 million as compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and interest expense. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased $872 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. This increase was driven by the contractual increase in prices associated with Generations PPA with ComEd and higher average margins on wholesale market sales as higher spot market prices more than compensated for higher fuel prices and the impact of higher nuclear generation. Operating Revenues. For 2005 and 2004, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,775 $ 3,749 $ 1,026 27.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,341 3,227 114 3.5 % Total energy sales revenue 8,116 6,976 1,140 16.3 % Retail gas sales 613 448 165 36.8 % Trading portfolio 17 17 n.m. Other revenue (a) 300 279 21 7.5 % Total revenue $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 17.4 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales, operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. n.m. Not meaningful Sales (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 121,961 110,465 11,496 10.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 72,376 92,134 (19,758 ) (21.4 )% Total sales 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% Trading volumes of 26,924 GWhs and 24,001 GWhs for 2005 and 2004, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates increased $1,026 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. The increase in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $635 million increase from overall higher prices associated with Generations PPA with ComEd and a $391 million increase from higher electric sales volume. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement as of April 30, 2004 with ComEd, effective January 1, 2005, Generation began receiving overall higher prices from ComEd for its purchased power. The higher sales volumes to ComEd and PECO resulted from favorable weather conditions in the summer and winter periods in the ComEd and PECO service territories and an increase in the number of customers returning from competitive electric generation suppliers in 2005 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 879 Volume (526 ) Sale of Boston Generating (239 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 114 (a) Sales to Boston Generating of $9 million were included in other revenue for 2004. 101 Table of Contents Wholesale and retail sales increased $114 million due to an increase in market prices in 2005 compared to the prior year. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher fuel prices (e.g. oil and natural gas). The increase in price was partially offset by lower volumes of generation capacity sold to the market in 2005 as compared to 2004. Generation had less power to sell into the market as a result of higher demand for power sold to affiliates in 2005 and the expiration of its PPA with Midwest Generation in 2004. The remaining decrease in wholesale and retail sales of $239 million was due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales increased $165 million primarily due to significantly higher gas prices in the overall market. Trading portfolio. Trading portfolio income increased $17 million in 2005 compared to the prior year due to an increase in trading volumes. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Proprietary Trading Activities for further information. Other revenues. The increase in other revenues in 2005 was primarily due to an increase of $60 million associated with revenue from Generations operating services agreements with PSEG and Tamuin International, Inc. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $39 million related to lower fuel sales, a reduction in decommissioning revenue from ComEd and lower sales from tolling and gas management agreements. The increased revenue from the operating services agreements was substantially offset by a corresponding increase in Generations operating and maintenance expense. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 137,936 136,621 1,315 1.0 % Purchases non trading portfolio 42,623 48,968 (6,345 ) (13.0 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 13,778 17,010 (3,232 ) (19.0 )% Total supply 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Price Volume Increase (Decrease) Purchased power costs $ 654 $ (327 ) $ 327 Generation costs 198 16 214 Fuel resale costs 149 (2 ) 147 Sale of Boston Generating n.m. n.m. (226 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. 9 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 471 n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity (i.e., capacity, energy and fuel costs). Generation experienced overall higher realized prices for purchased power in 2005 compared to 2004, resulting in a $654 million increase. This was offset by a decrease of $327 million due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market as a result of more demand from affiliates. 102 Table of Contents Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel cost for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs for 2005 compared to 2004 due to overall energy market conditions resulting in higher prices for raw materials (e.g., oil, natural gas and coal) used in the production of electricity. Additionally, there was an increase of $16 million related to higher nuclear and fossil generation need to meet affiliates demand. Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchase and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs in 2005 as compared to 2004 consisted of overall higher realized gas prices, offset by a $2 million volume decrease in the gas retail business. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense associated with Boston Generating was due to the sale of the business in May 2004. Mark to market. Mark to market losses on power derivative activities were $12 million for 2005 compared to losses of $3 million for 2004. Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2005 and 2004 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2005 2004 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 39.15 $ 33.94 15.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 46.16 35.03 31.8 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 41.76 34.43 21.3 % Average electric supply cost (b) excluding the trading portfolio $ 20.11 $ 17.60 14.3 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 21.65 $ 16.83 28.6 % (a) The increase in $/MWh was due to higher prices in 2005 associated with Generations PPA with ComEd. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: 2005 2004 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.03 $ 12.43 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. Generations nuclear fleet capacity factor was the same in 2005 as 2004. Higher costs associated with the planned refuel outages and higher non outage operating costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2005 as compared to 2004. There were nine planned refueling outages and 25 non refueling outages in 2005 compared to nine planned refuel outages and 20 non refueling outages in 2004. During 2004, both Quad Cities units operated intermittently at Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. As of the third quarter of 2005, both of the Quad Cities units returned to EPU generation levels after extensive testing and load verification on new replacement steam dryers was completed. Near the end of 2005, the generation levels of both Quad Cities units were again reduced to pre EPU generation levels to address vibration related equipment issues not directly related to the steam dryers. The units will be brought back to full EPU generation levels after all issues are addressed to ensure safe and reliable operations at the EPU output levels which is expected to occur in 2006. 103 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs $ 78 DOE settlement in 2004 42 Tamuin International 44 Accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims 43 Nuclear operating services agreement 14 Pension, payroll and benefit costs (58 ) Boston Generating (62 ) Decommissioning related activity (38 ) Other 24 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 87 This net $87 million increase was attributable to the following: A $78 million increase in nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs due to an increase in nuclear maintenance costs of $44 million related to planned nuclear refueling outages for plants operated by Generation and the co owned Salem Generating Station, and increases in other nuclear operating and maintenance expenses of $34 million, primarily security and inflationary costs; A $42 million reimbursement in 2004 of costs incurred prior to 2004 for the storage of spent nuclear fuel associated with the DOE settlement agreement; A $44 million increase in expenses associated with Generations operating service agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc; The establishment of a $43 million liability in June 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (see further discussion in Note 17 to the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); and Costs of $14 million in 2005 associated with the Salem and Hope Creek Operating Services Agreement with PSEG, the reimbursement of which is included in other revenues. The increases in operating and maintenance expense described above were partially offset by lower payroll related expenses (a $58 million reduction), the elimination of $62 million in expenses at Boston Generating due to its sale in May 2004 and a $36 million reduction in the contractual obligation that Generation has to ComEd related to decommissioning obligations (which is included in the $38 million of decommissioning related activity in the table above). Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units of $36 million recorded in the third quarter of 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense as this asset was associated with retired nuclear units that do not have any remaining useful life. This decrease was partially offset by increased depreciation expense due to recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income for 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to a net increase in Generations reserves related to payroll taxes, sales and use taxes and other taxes other than income, partially offset by a reduction in taxes resulting from the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. Other, Net. The decrease in other income for 2005 as compared to the prior year was primarily due to the $85 million gain ($52 million, net of taxes) on the disposal of Boston Generating recorded in 104 Table of Contents May 2004, partially offset by gains of $36 million realized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 39.0% for 2005 compared to 38.1% for 2004. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Generation sold or wound down substantially all components of AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe and results of AllEnergy have been presented as discontinued operations for 2005 within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithes and AllEnergys results of operations as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe as discontinued operations. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. Results of OperationsComEd 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 Operating expenses Purchased power 3,520 2,588 (932 ) Operating and maintenance 833 897 64 Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 413 410 (3 ) Taxes other than income 303 291 (12 ) Total operating expense 6,276 4,186 (2,090 ) Operating income (loss) (12 ) 1,617 (1,629 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (291 ) (349 ) 58 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) (19 ) 5 Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) 130 Other, net 4 14 (10 ) Total other income and deductions (301 ) (484 ) 183 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (313 ) 1,133 (1,446 ) Income taxes 363 457 94 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) (9 ) Net income (loss) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ (1,361 ) 105 Table of Contents Net Loss. ComEds net loss in 2005 was driven by the impairment of goodwill and higher purchased power expense, partially offset by higher operating revenues due to favorable weather and due to the impacts of a 2004 charge associated with the accelerated retirement of long term debt and lower interest expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Weather $ 415 Customer choice 81 Rate changes and mix (66 ) Volume (3 ) Other (9 ) Retail revenue 418 PJM transmission 58 T&O / SECA rates (28 ) Miscellaneous revenues 13 Other revenues 43 Increase in operating revenues $ 461 Weather. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions in 2005 compared to 2004. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 90% and 1% higher, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2005, one competitive electric generation supplier was approved to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, they are not currently supplying electricity to any residential customers. For 2005 and 2004, 33% and 35% of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers or under the PPO. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 19,310 20,939 Percentage of total retail deliveries 21 % 24 % Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 21,300 22,200 Percentage of total retail customers (b) (b) Volume (GWhs) (a) 30,905 30,426 Percentage of total retail deliveries 33 % 35 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Rate changes and mix. The change was primarily due to the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component of the CTC calculation which resulted in a decrease of $64 million to $105 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. 106 Table of Contents PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues increased in 2005 due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O / SECA rates. Revenues decreased as a result of the elimination of T&O rates in accordance with FERC orders that became effective December 1, 2004. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd, and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power Expense below. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. Purchased Power Expense. The changes in purchased power expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Prices $ 606 Weather 200 Customer choice 65 PJM 63 Volume 7 T&O collections / SECA rates (15 ) Other 6 Increase in purchased power expense $ 932 Prices. Purchased power increased due to higher prices associated with ComEds PPA with Generation of $497 million, and ancillary services of $109 million from PJM. In 2000, ComEd and Generation entered into a PPA that fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2004 based upon the then current market prices. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement with Generation, starting in January 1, 2005, ComEd began paying higher prices for its purchased power from Generation and ceased to procure its ancillary services from Generation. This agreement fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2006 based upon the current market prices as of April 30, 2004. Weather. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory, which increased the amount of electricity sold. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to fewer ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. PJM. The increase reflects higher transmission and purchased power expense of $57 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM and PJM administrative fees that increased by $6 million over 2004 fees. T&O Collections / SECA rates. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O rates for transmission service scheduled out of or across ComEds transmission system. Rates collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received by ComEd as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. ComEds purchased power expense increased $14 million due to ComEd no longer collecting T&O revenues in 2005. 107 Table of Contents Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005, ComEd recorded SECA collections net of SECA charges of $29 million. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O /SECA rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses (a) $ (47 ) Employee fringe benefits (b) (18 ) Pension expense and deferred compensation (c) (15 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts (13 ) Injuries and damages (2 ) Corporate allocations (b) 15 Storm costs 14 Contractors 12 PSEG merger integration costs 8 Other (18 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (64 ) (a) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other postretirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 as compared to 2004. (b) Excludes severance related expenses and pension expense. Reflects fewer employees compared to prior year and a reduction in 2005 related to estimated medical plan fees. A portion of the employee reduction is offset by an increase in corporate allocations. (c) Pension expense in 2005 is lower than in 2004 due in large part to significant pension plan contributions made in the first quarter of 2005. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds PPA with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd has approximately $3.5 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2005. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense $ 17 Other amortization expense (14 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 3 The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. The decrease in other amortization expense was primarily due to completing the amortization of one of ComEds software packages in 2004. 108 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 13 Tax refund (b) 6 Other (7 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 12 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) During 2004, a refund was received for Illinois electricity distribution taxes. Interest Expense, Net. The reduction in interest expense, net for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to long term debt retirements and prepayments in 2004 pursuant to Exelons accelerated liability management plan and scheduled payments on long term debt owed to the ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, partially offset by a $16 million decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC as a result of this receivable being repaid in late 2004. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt. In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $768 million of long term debt, of which $618 million was retired during the third quarter of 2004. During 2004, ComEd recorded a charge of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of this charge included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2005 compared to 2004 included a $15 million loss on settlement of cash flow swaps in 2005. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was (116.0)% and 40.3% for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The goodwill impairment charge decreased the effective income tax rate by 135.0% in 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 109 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 30,042 26,463 3,579 13.5 % Small commercial & industrial 21,378 21,662 (284 ) (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 7,904 6,913 991 14.3 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,133 1,893 240 12.7 % Total full service 61,457 56,931 4,526 7.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 5,591 4,110 1,481 36.0 % Large commercial & industrial 6,004 5,377 627 11.7 % 11,595 9,487 2,108 22.2 % Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,677 6,305 (628 ) (10.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 13,633 14,634 (1,001 ) (6.8 )% 19,310 20,939 (1,629 ) (7.8 )% Total PPO and delivery only 30,905 30,426 479 1.6 % Total retail deliveries 92,362 87,357 5,005 5.7 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,584 $ 2,295 $ 289 12.6 % Small commercial & industrial 1,671 1,649 22 1.3 % Large commercial & industrial 408 380 28 7.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 132 126 6 4.8 % Total full service 4,795 4,450 345 7.8 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 385 274 111 40.5 % Large commercial & industrial 345 304 41 13.5 % 730 578 152 26.3 % Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 95 128 (33 ) (25.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 156 204 (48 ) (23.5 )% 251 332 (81 ) (24.4 )% Total PPO and delivery only 981 910 71 7.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,776 5,360 416 7.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 488 443 45 10.2 % Total operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 7.9 % (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. 110 Table of Contents (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from competitive electric generation suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. Results of Operations PECO 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 423 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 2,515 2,172 (343 ) Operating and maintenance 549 547 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 566 518 (48 ) Taxes other than income 231 236 5 Total operating expense 3,861 3,473 (388 ) Operating income 1,049 1,014 35 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (279 ) (303 ) 24 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) (25 ) 9 Other, net 13 18 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (282 ) (310 ) 28 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 767 704 63 Income taxes 247 249 2 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 520 455 65 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) (3 ) Net income 517 455 62 Preferred stock dividends 4 3 (1 ) Net income on common stock $ 513 $ 452 $ 61 Net Income. PECOs net income in 2005 increased primarily as a result of higher revenues, net of related purchased power expense, due to favorable weather and lower interest expense due to the scheduled retirement of debt owed to PETT, partially offset by higher CTC amortization. Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Rate changes and mix $ 72 $ 90 $ 162 Customer choice 118 118 Volume 101 (21 ) 80 Weather 54 10 64 Retail revenue 345 79 424 T&O / SECA rates 3 3 PJM transmission (3 ) (3 ) Other 9 (10 ) (1 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 9 (10 ) (1 ) Increase in operating revenues $ 354 $ 69 $ 423 111 Table of Contents Rate changes and mix. The increase in electric revenues at PECO attributable to rate changes and mix resulted from increased residential sales, which are billed at higher average rates relative to other customer classes. In addition, rates were higher in 2005 for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were higher in 2005 relative to 2004. The increase in gas revenues was due to increases in rates through PAPUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2004, March 1, 2005, June 1, 2005, September 1, 2005 and December 1, 2005. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2005 was 12% higher than the average rate for 2004. Customer choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. For 2005 and 2004, 5% and 12%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 44,500 101,500 Percentage of total retail customers 3 % 7 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 2,094 4,605 Percentage of total retail deliveries 5 % 12 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice was primarily related to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. This action followed the assignment of approximately 194,000 residential customers to competitive electric generation suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PAPUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. In 2005, additional customers returned to PECO as their energy supplier primarily as a result of two alternative energy suppliers exiting the market. Volume. The increase in electric revenues was primarily as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were positively affected by favorable weather conditions at PECO in 2005 compared to 2004. In the PECO service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 21% and 2% higher, respectively, than the prior year. T&O / SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power and Fuel 112 Table of Contents Expense below. The elimination of T&O revenues and inclusion of SECA revenues had a minimal impact on PECO as T&O revenues recognized in the past were not material and SECA revenues currently being recognized also are not material. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. Other wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. Electric revenues increased $9 million primarily due to increased wholesale sales, and gas revenues decreased $10 million primarily due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Prices $ 83 $ 90 $ 173 Customer choice 118 118 Weather 21 7 28 Volume 32 (15 ) 17 PJM transmission 11 11 SECA rates 9 9 Other (13 ) (13 ) Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 274 $ 69 $ 343 Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Weather. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to serving the increased demand due to favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory. Volume. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was due primarily to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005 and 2004, PECO recorded SECA charges of $10 million and $1 million, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O and SECA rates. Other. The decrease in gas fuel expense of $13 million was associated with decreased off system sales. 113 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Contractors (a) $ 8 Storm costs 7 Implementation of new customer information and billing system 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Severance related expenses (b) (14 ) Injuries and damages (6 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) The increase was primarily due to increases in vegetation management services compared to the prior year at PECO. (b) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other post retirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 compared to 2004. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization (a) $ 37 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) 13 Depreciation expense(c) 3 Other amortization expense (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 48 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system requires the accelerated amortization of PECOs current system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. (c) The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Reduction in capital stock tax accrual in 2005 (a) $ (17 ) Reduction in real estate tax accrual in 2005 (b) (6 ) Taxes on utility revenues (c) 24 Other (6 ) Decrease in taxes other than income $ (5 ) (a) Represents a reduction in 2005 of prior year capital stock tax accruals as a result of a favorable decision from the Pennsylvania Board of Finance and Revenue. (b) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in March 2005 following settlements between PECO and various taxing authorities related to prior year tax assessments. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. 114 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net. The reduction in interest expense, net for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to scheduled payments on long term debt owed to PETT. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts of PECO due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 32.2% for 2005 compared to 35.4% for 2004. The lower effective tax rate reflects a state income tax benefit recorded as a result of the favorable settlement of a 2000 Pennsylvania corporate net income tax audit. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 13,135 10,349 2,786 26.9 % Small commercial & industrial 7,263 6,728 535 8.0 % Large commercial & industrial 15,205 14,908 297 2.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 962 914 48 5.3 % Total full service 36,565 32,899 3,666 11.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 334 2,158 (1,824 ) (84.5 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,257 1,687 (430 ) (25.5 )% Large commercial & industrial 503 760 (257 ) (33.8 )% Total delivery only 2,094 4,605 (2,511 ) (54.5 )% Total retail deliveries 38,659 37,504 1,155 3.1 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. 115 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,705 $ 1,317 $ 388 29.5 % Small commercial & industrial 818 756 62 8.2 % Large commercial & industrial 1,173 1,113 60 5.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 84 80 4 5.0 % Total full service 3,780 3,266 514 15.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 25 164 (139 ) (84.8 )% Small commercial & industrial 63 86 (23 ) (26.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 13 20 (7 ) (35.0 )% Total delivery only 101 270 (169 ) (62.6 )% Total electric retail revenues 3,881 3,536 345 9.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 212 203 9 4.4 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,093 $ 3,739 $ 354 9.5 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,751 59,949 (198 ) (0.3 )% Transportation 25,310 27,148 (1,838 ) (6.8 )% Total 85,061 87,097 (2,036 ) (2.3 )% Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 783 $ 702 $ 81 11.5 % Transportation 16 18 (2 ) (11.1 )% Resales and other 18 28 (10 ) (35.7 )% Total gas revenue $ 817 $ 748 $ 69 9.2 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. These capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations. When necessary, the Registrants obtain funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on their credit ratings and current business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively, that they currently utilize to support their commercial paper programs and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. 116 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, each of Exelons, ComEds and PECOs working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd intends to refinance maturing long term debt during 2007. To manage cash flows as more fully described below, ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows will be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Cash flows from operations have been a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements. Taking into account the factors noted above, Exelon also obtains cash from non operating sources such as the proceeds from the debt issuance in 2005 to fund Exelons $2 billion pension contribution (see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in the rate regulatory environments of ComEd and PECO. ComEd is required, beginning in 2007, to purchase energy in the wholesale energy markets in order to meet the retail energy needs of ComEds customers because ComEd does not own any generation. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell energy is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there may be potential material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. The ICC approved a cap and deferral program, proposed by ComEd, to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers. The cap and deferral program, generally speaking, will limit the procurement costs that ComEd can pass through to its customers for a specified period of time and allow ComEd to collect any unrecovered procurement costs in later years. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on the procurement case. Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO will increase due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, beginning in 2007, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, ComEd or Ameren are not required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation is required to post collateral. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Generations collateral policy. 117 Table of Contents Additionally, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the IRS, to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets, to which the IRS has objected. As discussed in Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, this deferred tax obligation is significant. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations: 2006 2005 Variance Net income $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,213 4,102 (889 ) Income taxes 69 138 (69 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) 141 (791 ) 932 Pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments, net (180 ) (2,225 ) 2,045 Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,835 $2,147 $ 2,688 (a) Includes depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, pension and other postretirement benefits expense, other decommissioning related activities, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment charges and other non cash items. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. The increase in cash flows from operations during 2006 was primarily the result of $2 billion of discretionary contributions to Exelons pension plans during 2005, which was initially funded through a term loan agreement, as further described in the Cash Flows from Financing Activities section below. Of the total contribution, Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $844 million, $803 million, and $109 million, respectively. The Generation contribution was primarily funded by capital contributions from Exelon and included $2 million from internally generated funds. ComEds and PECOs contributions were funded by capital contributions from Exelon. Cash flows provided by operations for 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ 4,835 $ 2,147 Generation 2,550 972 ComEd 987 247 PECO 1,017 704 Excluding the March 2005 discretionary pension contributions discussed above, changes in the Registrants cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in their results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations and the discretionary pension contributions discussed above, significant operating cash flow impacts for Generation and ComEd for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Generation At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Generation had accounts receivable from ComEd under the PPA of $197 million, $242 million and $189 million, respectively. 118 Table of Contents At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Generation had accounts receivable from PECO under the PPA of $153 million, $151 million and $125 million, respectively. During 2006, Generation had net collections of counterparty collateral of $431 million compared to $187 million of net disbursements of counterparty collateral in 2005. The increase in cash inflows from 2005 was primarily due to changes in collateral requirements resulting from the extension of letters of credit and changes in market prices relative to positions with counterparties. During 2006 and 2005, Generation had net payments of approximately $220 million and $165 million, respectively, primarily due to increased use of financial instruments to economically hedge future sales of power and future purchases of fossil fuel. During 2005, Exelon received a $102 million Federal income tax refund for capital losses generated in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. In the first quarter of 2006, Exelon remitted a $98 million payment to the IRS in connection with the settlement of the IRSs challenge of the timing of the above described deduction. This payment included $6 million of interest which was recognized as interest expense in the first quarter of 2006. Exelon received approximately $92 million on December 13, 2006 related to this same deduction in connection with the filing of its 2005 tax return. ComEd At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, ComEd had accrued payments to Generation under the PPA of $197 million, $242 million and $189 million, respectively. In 2005, ComEd settled $325 million of interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges for a loss of $15 million. This was recorded as a pre tax charge to net income because the underlying transaction for which these interest rate swaps were entered into was no longer probable of occurring. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ (2,762 ) $ (2,487 ) Generation (1,406 ) (1,294 ) ComEd (894 ) (479 ) PECO (332 ) (241 ) Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2006 and projected amounts for 2007 are as follows: 2006 2007 Generation (a) $ 1,109 $ 1,353 ComEd 911 1,055 PECO 345 355 Other (b) 53 38 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 2,418 $ 2,801 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations. 119 Table of Contents Projected capital expenditures and other investments by the Registrants are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Generations capital expenditures for 2006 reflected additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages) and nuclear fuel. Generation anticipates that its capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 50% of the projected 2007 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO are for continuing projects to maintain and improve the reliability of their transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amount is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. ComEd and PECO are continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that their capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings and the issuance of debt or preferred securities. Other significant investing activities for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $92 million and $102 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generation During 2006, Generation made contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool totaling $13 million. During 2005, Generation received approximately $52 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to its retired units. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Specifically, subsidiaries of Generation closed on the acquisition of Reservoir Capital Groups 50% interest in Sithe for cash payments of $97 million and the sale of 100% of Sithe to Dynegy, for net cash proceeds of $103 million. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Sithe. ComEd As a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool, $308 million was returned to ComEd during 2005. PECO During 2006 and 2005, $8 million and $26 million, respectively, were returned to PECO as a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool. 120 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ (1,989 ) $ (19 ) Generation (1,050 ) 93 ComEd (96 ) 240 PECO (693 ) (500 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2006 by registrant was as follows: Registrant Debt issued in 2006 Use of proceeds ComEd $325 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to supplement working capital previously used to refinance amounts that ComEd used to repay bonds and notes. ComEd $300 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd Additional $115 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay bonds at maturity. ComEd $345 million of First Mortgage 5.40% Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 Used to repay borrowings under ComEds revolving credit agreement which had been used to repay bonds and to refinance notes. PECO $300 million of First Mortgage Bonds 5.95% Series, due October 1, 2036 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement. The loan proceeds were used to fund discretionary contributions of $2 billion to Exelons pension plans, including contributions of $842 million, $803 million and $109 million by Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively. To facilitate the contributions by Generation, ComEd and PECO, Exelon contributed the corresponding amounts to the capital of each company. On April 1, 2005, Exelon entered into a $500 million term loan agreement that was subsequently fully borrowed to reduce the $2 billion term loan. During the second quarter of 2005, $200 million of the $500 million term loan, as well as the remaining $1.5 billion balance on the $2 billion term loan described above, were repaid with the net proceeds received from the issuance of the long term senior notes discussed below. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. On June 9, 2005, Exelon issued and sold $1.7 billion of senior debt securities pursuant to its senior debt indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, consisting of $400 million of 4.45% senior notes due 2010, $800 million of 4.90% senior notes due 2015 and $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2035. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay the $1.5 billion in remaining principal due on the $2 billion term loan agreement and $200 million of the $500 million term loan agreement referenced above. Exelon may redeem some or all of the notes at any time prior to maturity at a specified redemption price. The notes are unsecured and rank equally with the other senior unsecured indebtedness of Exelon. Additionally, Exelon settled interest rate swaps for a net payment of $38 million and paid approximately $12 million of fees in connection with the debt offering. In 2005, ComEd used funding received from $324 million of commercial paper to retire long term debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. 121 Table of Contents Generation and Peoples Calumet, LLC (Peoples Calumet), a subsidiary of Peoples Energy Corporation, were joint owners of Southeast Chicago Energy Project, LLC (SCEP), a 350 megawatt natural gas fired, peaking electric power plant located in Chicago, Illinois, which began operation in 2002. In 2002, Generation and Peoples Calumet owned 70% and 30%, respectively, of SCEP. Generation reflected the third party interest in this majority owned investment as a long term liability in its consolidated financial statements. Pursuant to the joint owners agreement, Generation was obligated to purchase Peoples Calumets 30% interest ratably over a 20 year period. On March 31, 2006, Generation entered into an agreement to accelerate the acquisition of Peoples Calumets interest in SCEP. This transaction closed on May 31, 2006. Under the agreement, Generation paid Peoples Calumet approximately $47 million for its remaining interest in SCEP. Generation financed this transaction using short term debt and available cash. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ 1,071 $ 1,070 Generation 609 857 ComEd 498 PECO 506 473 Exelon paid dividends of $267 million, $268 million, $268 million and $268 million on March 10, 2006, June 12, 2006, September 11, 2006 and December 11, 2006, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2006, May 15, 2006, August 15, 2006 and November 15, 2006, respectively. On December 5, 2006, Exelons board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.44 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2007 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2007. See Dividends section of ITEM 5 for a further discussion of Exelons dividend policy. During 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. The decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend on a quarterly basis. In 2003, Congress passed and President Bush signed into law the Jobs and Growth Tax Reconciliation Act, legislation which lowered the tax rate on capital gains and corporate dividends to 15% for most investors and to 5% for lower income investors. Prior to enactment of this law, the maximum tax rate on dividend income was 38.6%. These provisions, which were originally scheduled to expire at the end of 2008, were extended to 2010 as part of the Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2005 passed in May 2006. Intercompany Money Pool. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool decreased $92 million and $191 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. During 2006, ComEd repaid $140 million that it had borrowed from the Exelon intercompany money pool. ComEds net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool increased $140 million during 2005. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd suspended participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool increased $45 million in 2006. Commercial Paper and Notes Payable. During 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO repaid $685 million, $311 million, $399 million and $125 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2005, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO issued $500 million, $311 million, $459 million and $220 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. 122 Table of Contents In 2006, Exelon terminated its $300 million term loan agreement. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Exelon $ 910 $ 835 ComEd 339 354 PECO 571 481 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Generation $ 25 $ 843 ComEd 37 834 PECO 181 250 Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Exelon purchased treasury shares totaling $186 million and $362 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $184 million and $222 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. There was $60 million and $0 of excess tax benefits included as a cash inflow in other financing activities during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper by the Registrants. At December 31, 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. These revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at the Registrants and to issue letters of credit. During 2006, ComEd borrowed and fully repaid $240 million under its credit agreement. At December 31, 2006, the Registrants had the following aggregate bank commitments and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower AggregateBankCommitment (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon Corporate $ 1,000 $ 993 $ 150 Generation 5,000 4,920 ComEd 1,000 956 60 PECO 600 598 95 (a) Represents the total bank commitments to the borrower under credit agreements to which the borrower is a party. (b) Available capacity represents the unused bank commitments under the borrowers credit agreements net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit agreements. 123 Table of Contents Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 200 basis points. The average interest rates on commercial paper in 2006 for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO were approximately 5.02%, 4.99%, 5.06% and 4.97%, respectively. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and, in the case of Exelon and Generation, revenues from Sithe and interest on the debt of its project subsidiaries. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the year ended December 31, 2006: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.25 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2006, the Registrants were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. The ComEd credit agreement is secured by first mortgage bonds and imposes a restriction on future mortgage bond issuances by ComEd. It requires ComEd to maintain at least $1.75 billion of issuance availability (ignoring any interest coverage test) in the form of property additions or bondable bond retirements (previously issued, but now retired, bonds), most of which are required to be maintained in the form of bondable bond retirements. In general, a dollar of bonds can be issued under ComEds Mortgage on the basis of $1.50 of property additions, subject to an interest coverage test, or $1 of bondable bond retirements, which may or may not be subject to an interest coverage test. As of December 31, 2006, ComEd was in compliance with this requirement. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2006, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 40 % 25 % 33 % 25 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 16 9 43 Common equity 43 57 29 Members equity 75 Preferred securities 1 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 1 2 (a) As of December 31, 2006, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.1 billion receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table, but is excluded from the percentages in this footnote), consisted of 40% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 2% notes payable and 57% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. (b) Includes $3.6 billion, $1.0 billion and $2.6 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property and CTCs of ComEd and PECO or mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money 124 Table of Contents pool. Participation in the intercompany money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons treasurer. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon and UII, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, may participate as lenders. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2006 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2006: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2006Contributed (Borrowed) Generation $ 83 $ 234 $ 13 ComEd (a) 140 PECO 59 183 (45 ) BSC 234 134 (25 ) UII, LLC 5 Exelon 248 56 (a) As of January 10, 2006, ComEd suspended participation in the intercompany money pool. During the first quarter of 2006, ComEd repaid $140 million that it had borrowed from the intercompany money pool. Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2006: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa2 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Baa3 BB+ BBB Senior secured debt Baa2 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P3 A3 F2 Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (b) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On July 26, 2006, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) downgraded the long term and short term debt ratings of ComEd. The rating action concluded Moodys review for possible downgrade that commenced on December 15, 2005. Moodys attributed the downgrade to a difficult political and regulatory environment in Illinois, uncertainty about the outcome of the electricity supply auction and the expectation of a material regulatory deferral. On October 10, 2006, Moodys placed ComEds security ratings under review for possible downgrade resulting from perceived increasing political and regulatory risk in Illinois. 125 Table of Contents On July 31, 2006, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long term ratings of ComEd. On November 17, 2006, Fitch Ratings placed the ratings of ComEd under Ratings Watch negative due to on going uncertainty in Illinois resulting from recent legislative actions supporting a rate freeze. On October 5, 2006, Standard & Poors (S&P) downgraded the short term and long term security ratings of ComEd due to perceived political risk related to the rate freeze extension proposal. S&P downgraded ComEds senior unsecured debt to BB+, which is below investment grade. The ratings on Exelon, PECO and Generation were affirmed. The ratings for all Registrants were placed under Credit Watch with negative implications. None of the Registrants borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under the Registrants credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Shelf Registrations As of December 31, 2006, Exelon and PECO had current shelf registration statements for the sale of $300 million and $250 million, respectively, of securities that were effective with the SEC. ComEd, a well known seasoned issuer as described by the SEC, filed an automatic registration statement on May 10, 2006 and the shelf registration was effective immediately. The ability of Exelon, ComEd or PECO to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Restrictions The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. Under PUHCA, the SEC had financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations and Exelons financings. As a result of the repeal of PUHCA, 126 Table of Contents effective February 8, 2006, the SECs financing jurisdiction under PUHCA for ComEds and PECOs short term financings and Generations financings reverted to FERC and Exelons financings are no longer subject to regulatory approvals. In February 2006, ComEd and PECO received orders from FERC approving their requests for short term financing authority with FERC in the amounts of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, effective February 8, 2006 through December 31, 2007. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC with its market based rate authority in November 2000 and that became effective again with the repeal of PUHCA. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Under applicable law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. At December 31, 2006, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.4 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $1.8 billion, ComEds retained deficit of $(193) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1.6) billion partially offset by $1.4 billion of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends, and PECOs retained earnings of $584 million. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owns interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that own synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45K contains a provision under which the tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. On April 11, 2006, the IRS published the 2005 oil Reference Price and it did not exceed the beginning of the phase out range. Consequently, there was no phase out of tax credits for calendar year 2005. The following table (in dollars) provides the estimated phase out ranges for 2006 and 2007 based on the per barrel price of oil as of December 31, 2006. The table also contains the annual average New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. index (NYMEX) prices per barrel at December 31, 2006 based on actual prices for the year ended December 31, 2006 and the estimated average futures prices for the year ended December 31, 2007. 2006 2007 Beginning of Phase Out Range (a) $ 60 $ 62 End of Phase Out Range (a) 76 77 Annual Average NYMEX 66 64 (a) The estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges are based upon the actual 2005 phase out range. The actual 2005 phase out range was determined using the inflation adjustment factor published by the IRS in April 2006. The actual 2005 phase out range was increased by 2% per year (Exelons estimate of inflation) to arrive at the estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges. Exelon and the operators of the synthetic fuel producing facilities in which Exelon has interests idled the facilities in May 2006. The decision to suspend synthetic fuel production was primarily driven by the level and volatility of oil prices. In addition, the proposed Federal legislation that would have provided certainty that tax credits would exist for 2006 production was not included in the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005. Due to the reduction in oil prices during the third quarter of 2006, the operators resumed production at their synthetic fuel producing facilities in September 2006 127 Table of Contents and produced at full capacity through the remainder of 2006. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon has estimated the 2006 phase out to be 38%, which has reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $164 million to $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, Exelon has estimated the 2007 phase out of tax credits to be 18%. Exelon anticipates generating approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments, of which $80 million is expected in total for 2007 and 2008, assuming an 18% phase out of tax credits. Theses estimates may change significantly due to the volatility of oil prices. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges are based upon the actual 2005 phase out range. The actual 2005 phase out range was determined using the inflation adjustment factor published by the IRS in April 2006. The actual 2005 phase out range was increased by 2% each year (Exelons estimate of inflation) to arrive at the estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2012 and beyond 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 9,126 $ 246 $ 922 $ 2,427 $ 5,531 Long term debt to financing trusts 3,596 581 1,664 806 545 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 4,976 486 888 757 2,845 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,318 225 285 98 710 Capital leases 44 2 4 4 34 Operating leases 716 58 110 93 455 Purchase power obligations (b) 7,802 1,967 1,492 1,134 3,209 Fuel purchase agreements 5,022 1,047 1,463 1,169 1,343 Other purchase obligations (b)(c) 642 292 140 95 115 Chicago agreement (d) 36 6 12 12 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 950 950 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 32 32 Total contractual obligations $ 34,260 $ 4,942 $ 6,980 $ 6,595 $ 15,743 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2006. (b) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2006. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are contingent on plant availability. Does not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (c) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (d) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. 128 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment Due within Due 2012 and beyond (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 1,749 $ 10 $ 19 $ 700 $ 1,020 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 786 96 190 138 362 Capital leases 44 2 4 4 34 Operating leases 503 34 61 53 355 Purchase power obligations (b) 7,802 1,967 1,492 1,134 3,209 Fuel purchase agreements 4,516 830 1,317 1,104 1,265 Other purchase commitments (c) 277 165 50 38 24 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 24 24 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 950 950 Total contractual obligations $ 16,651 $ 3,128 $ 3,133 $ 3,171 $ 7,219 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2006. (b) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2006. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are contingent on plant availability. (c) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2012 and beyond Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 3,597 $ 147 $ 434 $ 560 $ 2,456 Long term debt to financing trusts 1,009 308 340 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,970 192 346 326 1,106 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 655 57 64 52 482 Operating leases 143 19 38 30 56 Other purchase commitments (b) 38 27 7 4 Chicago agreement (c) 36 6 12 12 6 Total contractual obligations $ 7,448 $ 756 $ 1,241 $ 984 $ 4,467 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. Other purchase commitments do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds supplier forward contracts. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. 129 Table of Contents PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2012 and beyond (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 1,471 $ $ 450 $ 267 $ 754 Long term debt to financing trusts 2,588 273 1,325 806 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 851 70 114 105 562 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 663 168 221 46 228 Operating leases 5 1 2 1 1 Fuel purchase agreements (b) 506 217 146 65 78 Other purchase commitments (c) 209 20 51 47 91 Total contractual obligations $ 6,293 $ 749 $ 2,309 $ 1,337 $ 1,898 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (c) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. For additional information about: commercial paper, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments and fuel purchase agreements, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the contribution required to Exelons pension plans to satisfy ERISA minimum funding requirements, see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the spent nuclear fuel and nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $14 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2006 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be 130 Table of Contents available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permitted ComEd through December 31, 2006, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. At December 31, 2006, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets related to its nuclear fueled generating facilities was approximately $3.5 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Following the completion of decommissioning activities, any excess nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to the former ComEd and PECO nuclear power plants will be required to be refunded to ComEd or PECO, as appropriate. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held approximately $6.4 billion of investments in trust funds, including unrealized gains at December 31, 2006. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Exelons commercial commitments as of December 31, 2006. Refund Claims ComEd and PECO have several pending tax refund claims seeking acceleration of certain tax deductions and additional tax credits. ComEd and PECO are unable to estimate the ultimate outcome of these refund claims and will account for any amounts received in the period the matters are settled with the IRS and state taxing authorities. While Generation currently has state reviews by governmental agencies pending, they are not expected to have a significant impact on the financial condition or result of operations of Generation. ComEd and PECO have entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the IRS. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome of the claims and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS, if any. The ultimate net cash impacts to ComEd and PECO related to these agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claim with the IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. If a settlement is reached, a portion of ComEds tax benefits, including any associated interest for periods prior to the PECO/Unicom Merger, would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill under the provisions of EITF Issue 93 7, Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination (EITF 93 7). Exelon cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. In 2006, the Joint Committee on Taxation (Joint Committee) completed its review and granted approval for PECOs income tax refund claims for investment tax credits. A majority of the investment tax credits claimed in the refund related to PECOs formerly owned generation property. The asset transfer agreement between PECO and Generation provides that PECO retains all current tax and interest benefits associated with the refund claims. Thus, as a result of the agreement, PECO recorded the current tax and interest benefits and Generation recorded the remaining unamortized investment tax credits and the related future deferred tax effects. As a result, the investment tax credit refund and associated interest of $19 million (after tax) have been recorded as a credit in Exelons and PECOs Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2006. Exelon and Generation recorded unamortized investment tax credits and related tax impacts of $10 million (after tax) as a charge to their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The unamortized investment tax credit recorded at Exelon, PECO and Generation will be amortized over the remaining depreciable book lives of the transmission, distribution and generation property using the deferral method pursuant to APB No. 2, Accounting for the Investment Credit and APB No. 4, Accounting for the Investment Credit. In addition, as a result 131 Table of Contents of the approval of the refund claim, Exelon and PECO recorded a consulting expense of $3 million (after tax) in 2006. The net after tax result of this settlement and consulting fees was $6 million, $16 million and $(10) million for Exelon, PECO and Generation, respectively. During 2006, the IRS indicated to PECO that it agreed with a substantial portion of a research and development refund claim. This refund claim was subject to the approval of the Joint Committee. In 2006, the Joint Committee completed its review and granted approval of the research and development claim. A majority of the refund claim also related to PECOs formerly owned generation property. Consistent with the investment tax credit refund claims, pursuant to the asset transfer agreement between PECO and Generation, PECO recorded the current tax and interest benefits and Generation recorded the future deferred tax effects. As a result, a research and development credit and the associated interest refund of $20 million (after tax) have been recorded as a credit in Exelons and PECOs Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2006. Exelon and Generation recorded the future deferred tax impact of $11 million as a charge to their Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, based on the IRS indication of its agreement with a portion of the refund claim, PECO recorded an estimated tax consulting contingent fee of $2 million (after tax) during 2006. The net after tax result of this settlement and consulting fees was $7 million, $18 million, and $(11) million for Exelon, PECO, and Generation respectively. Variable Interest Entities Sithe. As of December 31, 2004, Generation was a 50% owner of Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Generation consolidated Sithe within its financial statements as of March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of Generations entire interest in Sithe that was completed on January 31, 2005. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Trust IV in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding, LLC, ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, PECO Trust III and PETT were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Amounts of $1.0 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the American Nuclear Insurers (ANI) Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, 132 Table of Contents Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable through November 2010. At December 31, 2006, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $208 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, (SFAS No. 140), and a $17 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable which was accounted for as a long term note payable. At December 31, 2005, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $195 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, and a $30 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which was accounted for as a long term note payable. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for these receivables. The agreement requires PECO to maintain the $225 million interest, which, if not met, requires cash, which would otherwise be received by PECO under this program, to be held in escrow until the requirement is met. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposits. Beginning in 2007, this agreement will be subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, amendment of FASB Statement No. 140, which is not expected to have a material impact to PECO. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 133 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Corporation The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation is primarily exposed to commodity price risk with ComEd having modest exposure due to the need to purchase ancillary services. Exelon and Generation In 2005, Exelon and Generation entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. One of the counterparties has security interests in these derivatives. Including the related mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities reduced Exelons net income by $24 million and increased Exelons net income by $81 million and $70 million during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Exelon anticipates that it will continue to record income or losses related to the mark to market gains or losses on its derivative instruments and changes to the tax credits earned by Exelon during the period of production due to the volatility of oil prices. Net income or net losses from interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities are reflected in Exelons Consolidated Statements of Operations within income taxes, operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates and other, net. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to consolidated Financial Statements for further information in regards to synthetic fuel activity. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and they are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case those changes are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. 134 Table of Contents Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is approximately three years. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 2007 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. A portion of Generations hedge may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity would be a decrease of less than $50 million in net income. This sensitivity assumes that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2006 resulted in a gain of $14 million (before income taxes), which represented a net unrealized mark to market gain of $10 million and realized gain of $4 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $120,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for year ended December 31, 2006 of $5,165 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officer (CCRO). 135 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2006. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2005 (a) $ (145 ) Total change in fair value during 2005 of contracts recorded in earnings 108 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (105 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 583 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (879 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (102 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2005 (a) (540 ) Total change in fair value during 2006 of contracts recorded in earnings 41 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 66 Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 146 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI 789 Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (3 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets at December 31, 2006 $ 499 (a) Includes a $39 million liability related to Sithe and the related mark to market expense which were reclassified to discontinued operations. The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2006 and 2005: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Current assets $ 1,408 $ 916 Noncurrent assets 171 286 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,579 1,202 Current liabilities (1,003 ) (1,282 ) Noncurrent liabilities (77 ) (460 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (1,080 ) (1,742 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 499 $ (540 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 136 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, the table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within Total Fair Value (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by other external sources 345 59 14 1 419 Total $ 341 $ 59 $ 14 $ 1 $ $ $ 415 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ (122 ) $ 25 $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ (98 ) Prices provided by other external sources 232 1 233 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (50 ) (1 ) (51 ) Total $ 60 $ 24 $ $ $ $ $ 84 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate andOtherHedges Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2005 $ (137 ) $ (9 ) $ (146 ) Changes in fair value (533 ) 5 (528 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income 356 356 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2005 (314 ) (4 ) (318 ) Changes in fair value 476 1 477 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 88 88 Accumulated OCI derivative gain (loss) at December 31, 2006 $ 250 $ (3 ) $ 247 137 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd has derivatives related to one wholesale contract and certain other contracts to manage the market price exposures to several wholesale contracts that extend into 2007, which is beyond the expiration of ComEds PPA with Generation. Additionally, the supplier forward contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction (see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. As of December 31, 2006, the fair value of the derivative wholesale contract of $5 million was recorded on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet, which is classified as a current liability. The financial derivative used to manage the market price exposure to several wholesale contracts is designated and effective as a cash flow hedge, as defined in SFAS No. 133. As such, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. As of December 31, 2006, the fair value of this contract of $6 million was recorded on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet as a current liability. ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to ancillary services that are purchased from PJM. Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation Generations PPA with ComEd expired at the end of 2006. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren auctions. As a result of the expiration of the PPA and the results of the auctions, beginning in 2007, Generation will sell more electricity through bilateral agreements with other new and existing counterparties. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment; therefore, Generations credit risk profile is anticipated to change based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. Additionally, due to the possibility of rate freeze legislation in Illinois affecting both ComEd and Ameren, Generation may be subject to the risk of default and, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by ComEd or Ameren, a risk that the bankruptcy may result in rejection of contracts for the purchase of electricity. A default by ComEd or Ameren on contracts for purchase of electricity, or a rejection of those contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding, could result in a disruption in the wholesale power markets. For additional information on the Illinois auction, the proposed legislation and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 138 Table of Contents The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through RTOs and Independent System Operators (ISOs) which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2006 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,005 $ 268 $ 737 1 $ 95 Non investment grade 53 9 44 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 10 1 9 Internally rated non investment grade 4 3 1 Total $ 1,072 $ 281 $ 791 1 $ 95 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Rating as of December 31, 2005 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 472 $ 53 $ 419 2 $ 147 Non investment grade 60 11 49 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 41 41 Internally rated non investment grade 38 38 Total $ 611 $ 64 $ 547 2 $ 147 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2006 (a) Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 944 $ 61 $ $ 1,005 Non investment grade 40 13 53 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 10 10 Internally rated non investment grade 3 1 4 Total $ 997 $ 75 $ $ 1,072 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable 139 Table of Contents grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO will increase due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, beginning in 2007, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, neither ComEd nor Ameren is required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation may be required to post collateral. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on contracted clearing prices related to the ComEd and Ameren auctions. As of December 31, 2006, Generation had $26 million of collateral deposit payments being held by counterparties and Generation was holding $273 million of collateral deposits received from counterparties. RTOs and ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets that are administered by: PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd is currently unable to predict the impact of the reverse auction power prices, effective in January 2007, on its provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. PECO has experienced an increase in its provision for uncollectible accounts in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of higher average 140 Table of Contents accounts receivable balances in 2006 resulting from increased revenues, changes in PAPUC approved regulations related to customer payment terms and an increase in the number of low income customers participating in customer assistance programs, which allow for the forgiveness of certain receivables. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3.5% of its electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 5.9% of its retail electric and gas revenues. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets included a $529 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2006. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $963 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Variable Rate Debt. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2006, the Registrants did not have any material fair value or cash flow interest rate hedges outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $4 million, $2 million, $1 million and $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs, respectively, pre tax earnings. Fair Value Hedges. During 2006, ComEd settled its interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million for a cash payment of approximately $1 million. Cash Flow Hedges. In 2005, ComEd settled its interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $325 million due to the underlying transaction for which these interest rate swaps were entered into was no longer probable of occurring. As a result, Exelon and ComEd recognized a pre tax loss of $15 million which was included in other, net within the Consolidated Statements of Operations and within Cash Flows From Investing Activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In addition, during 2005, Exelon settled interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $1.5 billion and recorded pre tax losses of $39 million which will be recorded as additional interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2006, Generations 141 Table of Contents decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $460 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. Exelon and Generation maintain trust assets associated with defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 142 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility that Generation currently utilizes to support is commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 143 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 144 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where ComEd no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, ComEd has access to a revolving credit facility that ComEd currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 145 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 146 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 147 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 148 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon General Exelon is a utility services holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following operating segments: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail and wholesale customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose businesses consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Exelons corporate operations, through its business services subsidiary, BSC, provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $1,592 million in 2006 as compared to $923 million in 2005 and diluted earnings per average common share were $2.35 for 2006 as compared to $1.36 for 2005. The increases were primarily due to the following: a $1.2 billion impairment charge in 2005 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher margins on wholesale market sales and increased nuclear output at Generation; a one time benefit of approximately $290 million to recover certain costs approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order and the ICCs December 2006 amended rate order; unrealized mark to market gains on contracts not yet settled; a decrease in Generations nuclear asset retirement obligation resulting from changes in managements assessment of the probabilities associated with the anticipated timing of cash flows to decommission primarily the AmerGen nuclear plants; increased electric revenues at PECO associated with certain scheduled rate increases; increased kWh deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, reflecting 2006 load growth at ComEd and PECO; losses recorded in 2005 for the cumulative effect of adopting Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (FIN 47); and 62 Table of Contents a reserve recorded by Generation in 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims. The factors driving the overall increase in net income were partially offset by the following: a $776 million impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order; a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the now terminated proposed merger with PSEG; increased severance and severance related charges; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; reduced earnings from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and the impairment of the associated intangible asset; increased depreciation and amortization expense, primarily related to CTC amortization at PECO; higher operating and maintenance expenses, including increased nuclear refueling outage costs, increased costs associated with incremental storm damage in the PECO service territory, expenses related to stock based compensation as a result of adopting Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123 R) and the impacts of inflation; increased interest expense associated with the debt issued in March 2005 to fund Exelons pension contributions; and gains realized in 2005 on AmerGens decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes to the investment strategy. Termination of Proposed Merger with PSEG. On December 20, 2004, Exelon entered into a Merger Agreement with PSEG, a public utility holding company primarily located and serving customers in New Jersey, whereby PSEG would be merged with and into Exelon (Merger). On September 14, 2006, Exelon gave formal notice to PSEG that Exelon had terminated the Merger Agreement and the companies agreed to withdraw their application for Merger approval, which had been pending before the NJBPU for more than 19 months. The notice followed a number of discussions with state officials and other interested parties, which made clear that gaps separating the parties respective settlement positions were insurmountable. Major differences included, among other things, issues relating to rate concessions and market power mitigation. During 2006, Exelon recorded Merger related expenses of approximately $93 million (pre tax), of which $55 million relates to the write off of the capitalized costs associated with the Merger. Including this $93 million of expenses, total Merger related expenses incurred since the inception of the Merger discussions were approximately $130 million. Financing Activities. During 2006, Exelon met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash. When necessary, Exelon obtains funds from external sources, including the capital markets, and through bank borrowings. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. In addition, ComEd and PECO issued First Mortgage Bonds of $1.1 billion and $300 million, respectively, in 2006. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the credit facilities and the bond issuances. 63 Table of Contents Regulatory and Environmental Developments. The following significant regulatory and environmental developments occurred during 2006. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. ComEd Procurement Case On January 24, 2006, the ICC approved ComEds procurement case, authorizing ComEd to procure electricity after 2006 through a reverse auction competitive bidding process and to recover the costs from retail customers with no markup. The first auction took place in September 2006. As a result of the auction, ComEd has entered into supplier forward contracts with various suppliers including Generation. The ICC order is under appeal. Illinois Rate Freeze Extension Proposal In 2006 and 2007, various bills, amendments and compromise legislation were separately passed by the Illinois House and the Illinois Senate including, in the Illinois House, an extension of the Illinois transition period rate freeze with a rollback of rates to 2006 levels. However, the Illinois General Assembly adjourned on January 9, 2007 without taking further action on such bills. As a result, all pending legislation expired. ComEd believes any rate rollback and freeze legislation, if proposed again and enacted into law, would have serious detrimental effects on Illinois, ComEd and consumers of electricity. ComEd believes such legislation would violate Federal law and the U.S. Constitution, and ComEd is prepared to vigorously challenge any such legislation in court. ComEd Residential Rate Stabilization On December 20, 2006, the ICC approved a residential rate stabilization program that allows residential customers the choice to limit the impact of any rate increase over the next three years. For customers choosing to participate in the program, electric rate increases would be capped at 10% in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009. Costs that exceed the caps would be deferred and recovered over three years from 2010 to 2012. Deferred balances will be assessed an annual carrying charge of 3.25%. If ComEds rate increases are less than the caps in 2008 and 2009, ComEd would begin to recover deferred amounts up to the caps with carrying costs. This order also strongly encouraged, but did not require, ComEd to make contributions totaling $30 million to environmental and customer assistance programs. ComEd is currently evaluating this request. This order is subject to rehearing and appeal. ComEd Rate Case On July 26, 2006, the ICC issued its order in the Rate Case approving a revenue increase of approximately $8 million and the recovery of several items that previously were recorded as expense. On December 20, 2006, the ICC approved an amended order on the rehearing of the Rate Case allowing an additional revenue increase of approximately $74 million, including a partial return on the pension asset, for a total rate increase of $83 million. ComEd and various other parties have appealed the rate order to the courts. As a result of the July 26, 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded an after tax impairment charge of $776 million associated with the write off of goodwill. Nuclear Fleet Inspection In February 2006, Exelon and Generation launched an initiative across its nuclear fleet to systematically assess systems that handle tritium and take the necessary actions to minimize the risk of inadvertent discharge of tritium into the environment. The initiative was in response to the detection of tritium in water samples taken related to leaks at the Braidwood, Byron and Dresden nuclear generating stations in Illinois. On September 28, 2006, Generation announced the final results of the assessment, concluding that no active leaks had been identified at any of Generations 11 nuclear plants and no detectable tritium had been identified beyond any of the plants boundaries other than from permitted discharges, with the exception of Braidwood where past accidental tritiated water spills have been identified and state approved cleanup work continues. The assessment further concluded that none of the tritium concentrations identified in the assessment pose a health or safety threat to the public or to Generations employees or contractors. 64 Table of Contents Outlook for 2007 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell electricity beginning in 2007 is set below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there will be material adverse consequences to ComEd, including possible bankruptcy, which could result in material adverse consequences to Exelon and, in the event of a ComEd bankruptcy filing, possibly material adverse consequences to Generation. The ICCs unanimous approval of the reverse auction process, barring any adverse decision in the pending appeals or change in law, should provide ComEd with stability and greater certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to ComEds customers beginning in 2007 through a transparent market mechanism in the reverse auction competitive bidding process. PECO was subject to electric rate caps on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 and is subject to caps on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. PECOs transmission and distribution rates will continue in effect until PECO files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. There are no current proceedings to do so. PECO is, however, involved in proceedings involving annual changes in its electric and gas universal service fund cost charges, its electric CTC/intangible transition charge reconciliation mechanism, and its purchased gas cost rate, all of which are designed to fully recover PECOs applicable costs on a dollar for dollar basis. Effective January 1, 2007, in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC, PECO implemented an electric generation rate increase that will result in approximately $190 million of additional operating revenues in 2007 as compared to 2006 and a corresponding increase in purchased power from affiliate, in accordance with PECOs PPA with Generation, with no resulting impact on pre tax operating income. The impact of this rate increase on Exelon will be an increase in operating revenues and pre tax operating income of approximately $190 million. The impact on Generation will be an increase in operating revenues from affiliates and pre tax operating income of approximately $190 million. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity trading portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2007 and 2008. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. The PPA between Generation and PECO expires at the end of 2010. Current market prices for electricity have increased significantly over the past few years due to the rise in natural gas and fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates are below current wholesale energy market prices and Generations margins on sales in excess of ComEds and PECOs requirements have improved historically due to its significant capacity of low cost nuclear generating facilities. Generations ability to maintain those margins will depend on future fossil fuel prices and its ability to obtain high capacity factors at its nuclear plants. Federal and state governing bodies have begun to introduce, and in some cases approve, legislation mandating the future use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal. The extent of the use of these renewable and alternative fuel sources varies by state and could change. The future requirement to use these renewable and alternative fuel sources for some portion of ComEds and PECOs distribution sales could result in increased fuel costs and capital expenditures. 65 Table of Contents Select northeast and mid Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate carbon emissions from fossil fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and or state legislation to regulate carbon emissions could occur in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs in further limiting the emissions from certain of its fossil fuel fired facilities or in procuring emission allowance credits issued by various governing bodies. However, Exelon may benefit from stricter emission standards due to its significant nuclear capacity, which is not anticipated to be affected by the proposed emission standards. Exelon anticipates that it will be subject to the ongoing pressures of rising operating expenses due to increases in costs such as medical benefits and rising payroll costs due to inflation. Also, Exelon will continue to incur significant capital costs associated with its commitment to produce and deliver energy reliably to its customers. Increasing capital costs may include the price of uranium which fuels the nuclear facilities and continued capital investment in Exelons aging distribution infrastructure and generating facilities. Exelon is determined to operate its businesses responsibly and to appropriately manage its operating and capital costs while serving its customers and producing value for its shareholders. Exelon pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize earnings and cash flows. On September 29, 2006, Generation notified the NRC that Generation will begin the application process for a combined construction and operating license that would allow for the possible construction of a new nuclear plant at an as yet unnamed location in Texas. The filing of the letter with the NRC launches a process that preserves for Exelon the option to develop a new nuclear plant in Texas without immediately committing to the full project. Exelon has not decided to build a new nuclear plant. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision to build is made are a permanent solution to spent nuclear fuel disposal, broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant and assurances that a new plant using new technology can be financially successful. Exelon expects to submit the application to the NRC for the combined construction and operating license in 2008. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Nuclear Decommissioning (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). 66 Table of Contents SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate the fair value of its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that fair value, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies prepared by a third party to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects and other third party estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at a minimum of every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above, which were prepared using year of estimate amounts, through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy and low level radioactive waste disposal costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on a periodic basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternative and timing scenarios. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% or minus 15% over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a low level radioactive waste landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposal. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation recorded with a corresponding change to the asset retirement cost (ARC) asset. However, if an update to an ARO results in a decrease, and that unit does not have an underlying ARC, that change in the ARO may be recognized in current period earnings. Changes in the assumptions could affect future updates to the decommissioning obligation. For example, the 20 year average cost escalation rates used in the latest ARO calculation were approximately 3% to 4%. A uniform increase in these escalation rates of 25 basis points would increase the total ARO recorded by Exelon by approximately 9% or more than $300 million. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a periodic basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Conditional ARO (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) As of December 31, 2005, the Registrants adopted FIN 47. FIN 47 clarified that a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a long lived asset whose timing and or method of settlement are 67 Table of Contents conditional on a future event is within the scope of SFAS No. 143. Under FIN 47, the Registrants are required to record a conditional ARO at its estimated fair value if that fair value can be reasonably estimated. The adoption of FIN 47 required the Registrants to update an existing inventory, originally created for the adoption of SFAS No. 143, and to determine which, if any, of the conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated. The ability to reasonably estimate a conditional ARO was a matter of management judgment, based upon managements ability to estimate a settlement date or range of settlement dates, a method or potential method of settlement and probabilities associated with the potential dates and methods of settlement of its conditional AROs. In determining whether their conditional AROs could be reasonably estimated, management considered the Registrants past practices, industry practices, managements intent and the estimated economic lives of the assets. The fair values of the conditional AROs were then estimated using an expected present value technique. Additionally, Exelon, ComEd and PECO assessed the likelihood of recovering these obligations from customers which led to the recognition of regulatory assets. Changes in managements assumptions regarding settlement dates, settlement methods, assigned probabilities or recovery mechanisms could have a material effect on the liabilities recorded by each Registrant and the associated regulatory assets recorded at Exelon, ComEd and PECO. The liabilities associated with conditional AROs will be adjusted on a periodic basis due to the passage of time, new laws and regulations and revisions to either the timing or amount of the original estimates of undiscounted cash flows. These adjustments could have a significant impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Operations of the Registrants. For more information regarding the adoption and ongoing application of FIN 47, see Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill which relates to the acquisition of ComEd under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill might be impaired, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires managements judgments, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets and liabilities to reporting units, assigning goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of each reporting unit. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Due to the significant negative impact of the ICCs July 26, 2006 order in ComEds Rate Case to the future cash flows and value of ComEd, an interim impairment assessment was completed during the third quarter of 2006. Based on the results of ComEds interim goodwill impairment analysis, Exelon and ComEd recorded an impairment charge of $776 million associated with the write off of the goodwill. Exelon and ComEd performed their annual goodwill impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of 2006 and determined that goodwill was not further impaired. Future developments relating to ComEds ongoing regulatory and or legislative items could also be relevant to future goodwill impairment analyses and may lead to further impairments, which could be material. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Rate Case. In the assessments, Exelon and ComEd estimated the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with multiple scenarios. The fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. Additionally, ComEds estimate of its fair value was compared to a fair value estimate determined by a third party valuation firm. Changes in assumptions regarding variables, including post 2006 rate regulatory structure, ComEds capital structure, changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, operating and 68 Table of Contents capital expenditure requirements and other factors, or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of 10% in ComEds expected discounted cash flows would result in additional impairment for both ComEd and Exelon of approximately $800 million. An additional impairment would require Exelon and ComEd to further reduce both goodwill and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Investments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO had investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2006. The Registrants consider investments to be impaired when a decline in fair value below cost is judged to be other than temporary. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, the Registrants evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, as well as their intent and ability to hold the investment. The Registrants may also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee when reviewing an investment for impairment. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the investment and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Beginning in 2006, and in connection with the issuance of FASB Staff Position FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (FSP 115 1), Generation considers all nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments in an unrealized loss position to be other than temporarily impaired. As a result of certain NRC restrictions, Generation is unable to demonstrate its ability and intent to hold the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments through a recovery period and, accordingly, recognizes any unrealized holding losses immediately. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have a significant investment in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of property, plant and equipment recorded and the depreciation charged to the financial statements. Historically, Generation has extended the estimated service lives of the nuclear fuel generating facilities based upon Generations intent to apply for license renewals for these facilities. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that 69 Table of Contents would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. The impact of the new rates was not material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for essentially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and BSC employees, except for those employees of Generations wholly owned subsidiary, AmerGen, who participate in the separate AmerGen sposored defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement welfare benefit plan. See Note 14 Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are dependent on historical information such as employee age, length of service and level of compensation and the actual rate of return on plan assets. Also, Exelon and AmerGen utilize assumptions about the future, including the expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the remaining service period, rate of compensation increases and the anticipated rate of increase in health care costs, in order to measure the plan obligations and costs to be recognized related to these plans. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 9.00% for 2006, 2005, and 2004. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 8.15% and 8.30% in 2006 and 2005, respectively, and a range of 8.33% to 8.35% in 2004. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The average remaining service period of defined pension plan participants was 13.5 years, 13.8 years and 15.1 years for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 7.3 years, 7.5 years and 8.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 10.3 years, 10.9 years and 11.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rate for determining the pension benefit obligations was 5.90%, 5.60% and 5.75% at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rate for determining the other postretirement benefit obligations was 5.85%, 5.60% and 5.75% at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The discount rate at December 31, 2004 was selected by reference to the Moodys Aa Corporate Bond Index adjusted to reflect the duration of expected future cash flows for pension and other postretirement benefit payments. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the discount rate was 70 Table of Contents determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of more than 400 Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon will use a discount rate and EROA of 5.90% and 8.75%, respectively, for estimating its 2007 pension costs. Additionally, Exelon will use a discount rate and expected return on plan assets of 5.85% and 7.87%, respectively, for estimating its 2007 other postretirement benefit costs. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Projected Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2006 Impact on Pension Liability at December 31, 2006 Impact on 2007 Pension Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 720 $ 720 $ 57 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 47 Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2006 Impact on Postretirement Benefit Liability at December 31, 2006 Impact on 2007 Postretirement Benefit Cost Postretirement benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 225 $ 225 $ 26 Decrease rate of return on plan assets by 0.5% 7 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens postretirement benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2006 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2006 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Obligation at December 31, 2006 Impact on 2006 TotalService and Interest CostComponents Increase assumed health care cost trend by 1% $ 45 $ 418 Decrease assumed health care cost trend by 1% (37 ) (345 ) Extending the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2012 to 2017 would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2006 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2006 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact on OtherPostretirement Benefit Obligation atDecember 31, 2006 Impact on2006 Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached from 2012 to 2017 $ 234 $ 22 71 Table of Contents The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2006, the income statement gain could have been as much as $2.3 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that ComEd could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Similarly, at December 31, 2006, the income statement charge could have been as much as $3.7 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that PECO could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. In that event, Exelon would record an income statement gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and or PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against other comprehensive income of up to $1.4 billion (before taxes) related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which would be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 4, 8 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction where they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments, recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction and the ability to recover costs through regulated rates. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd, PECO) The Registrants may enter into derivatives to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation utilizes derivatives with respect to energy transactions to the utilization of its available generating capability and the supply of wholesale energy to its affiliates. Generation 72 Table of Contents also utilizes energy option contracts and energy financial swap arrangements to limit the market price risk exposure associated with forward energy commodity prices. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for trading purposes. ComEd has derivatives related to one wholesale contract and certain other contracts to manage the market price exposures to several wholesale contracts that extend into 2007, which is beyond the expiration of ComEds PPA with Generation. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133). Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Derivatives recorded at fair value on the balance sheet are presented as current or noncurrent mark to market derivative assets or liabilities. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met, in which case those changes are recorded in earnings as an offset to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged or deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings when the hedged transaction occur. Amounts recorded in earnings are included in revenue, purchased power or fuel in the consolidated statements of income. Cash inflows and outflows related to derivative instruments are included as a component of operating, investing or financing cash flows in the statement of cash flows, depending on the underlying nature of the Registrants hedged items. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. The availability of the normal purchases and normal sales exception is based upon the assessment of the ability and intent to deliver or take delivery of the underlying item. If it was determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren procurement auctions. As a result of the expiration of Generations PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006 and the results of the auctions, beginning in 2007, Generation will sell more power through bilateral agreements with other new and existing counterparties. ComEd also entered into agreements with thirteen other suppliers as part of the auction. Generations and ComEds agreements meet the normal purchases and normal sales exception. Energy Contracts. Identification of an energy contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the energy contract and the expected future purchase or sale of energy is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such an energy contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When 73 Table of Contents external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Normal Operations and Hedging Activities for further information regarding sensitivity analysis related to market price exposure. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants use external dealer prices and or internal valuation models that utilize assumptions of available market pricing curves. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on the liabilities and expenses in their financial statements. Taxation The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax reserve balances as of December 31, 2006 reflect the probable expected outcome of pending tax matters in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements a replacement of FASB Concepts Statement No. 3 (incorporating an amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2), the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. 74 Table of Contents The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon and Generation have a reserve for asbestos related bodily injury claims for open claims presented to Generation as of December 31, 2006 and for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030 based on actuarial assumptions and analysis. Exelons and Generations management each determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims beyond 2030 based on the historical claims data available and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating the future losses, management and the actuaries made various assumptions, including but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that related to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelon plans to obtain annual updates of the estimate of future losses. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon historical experience and third party actuarial studies. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. Management cautions, however, that these estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Severance Accounting (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants provide severance benefits to terminated employees pursuant to pre existing severance plans primarily based upon each individual employees years of service with the Registrants and compensation level. The Registrants accrue severance benefits that are considered probable and can be reasonably estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (SFAS No. 112). A significant assumption in estimating severance charges is the determination of the number of positions to be eliminated. The Registrants base their estimates on their current plans and ability to determine the appropriate staffing levels to effectively operate their businesses. The Registrants may incur further severance costs if they identify additional positions to be eliminated. These costs will be recorded in the period in which the costs can be reasonably estimated. Stock Based Compensation Cost (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) On January 1, 2006, Exelon adopted SFAS No. 123 R, which requires that compensation cost relating to share based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. That cost is measured on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments at the date of grant and amortized over the vesting period. The fair value of stock options on the date of grant is estimated using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model, which requires assumptions such as dividends yield, expected volatility, risk free interest rate, expected life and forfeiture rate. The fair value of performance share awards granted in 2006 was estimated using historical data for the previous two plan years and a Monte Carlo simulation model for the current plan year, which requires assumptions regarding Exelons 75 Table of Contents total shareholder return relative to certain stock market indices and the stock beta and volatility of Exelons common stock and all stocks represented in these indices. If the actual results of the cash settled performance share awards differ significantly from the estimates, the Consolidated Financial Statements could be materially affected. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Generations revenue from service agreements, such as the nuclear Operating Service Agreement with PSEG Nuclear, is dependent upon when the services are rendered. Service agreements representing a cost recovery arrangement are presented gross within revenues for the amounts due from the party receiving the service, and the costs associated with providing the service are presented within operating and maintenance expenses. 76 Table of Contents Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Results of Operations Exelon 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 298 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 5,232 5,670 438 Operating and maintenance 3,868 3,694 (174 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 1,487 1,334 (153 ) Taxes other than income 771 728 (43 ) Total operating expenses 12,134 12,633 499 Operating income 3,521 2,724 797 Other income and deductions Interest expense (616 ) (513 ) (103 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (264 ) (316 ) 52 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (111 ) (134 ) 23 Other, net 266 134 132 Total other income and deductions (725 ) (829 ) 104 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,796 1,895 901 Income taxes 1,206 944 (262 ) Income from continuing operations 1,590 951 639 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 2 14 (12 ) Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,592 965 627 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 42 Net income $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 0.99 Net Income. Exelons net income for 2006 reflects higher realized prices on market sales and increased nuclear output at Generation; a one time benefit of approximately $158 million to recover previously incurred severance costs approved by the December 2006 amended ICC rate order; a one time benefit of approximately $130 million to recover certain costs approved by the July 2006 ICC rate order; a decrease in Generations nuclear ARO resulting from changes in managements assessment of the probabilities associated with the anticipated timing of cash flows to decommission primarily AmerGen nuclear plants; unrealized mark to market gains; increased electric revenues at PECO associated with certain authorized rate increases; and increased kWh deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, reflecting load growth at ComEd and PECO. These increases were partially offset by a $776 million impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill; unfavorable weather conditions in both the ComEd and PECO service territories; a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased severance and severance related charges; losses from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities; increased depreciation and amortization expense, including CTC amortization at PECO; and higher operating and maintenance expenses including increased costs associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory, increased nuclear refueling outage costs, increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R, and the impacts of 77 Table of Contents inflation. Exelons net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1.2 billion associated with ComEds goodwill; unrealized mark to market losses; losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47; favorable tax settlements at Generation and PECO; and gains realized on AmerGens decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation due to an increase in market prices; higher nuclear output; electric rate increases at PECO; and higher kWh deliveries at ComEd and PECO, excluding the effects of weather. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to lower volumes of power purchased in the market and decreased fossil generation, partially offset by overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply in 2006 compared to 22% for 2005. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased nuclear refueling outage costs; increased severance and severance related charges; increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R; and the impacts from inflation. These increases were partially offset by a one time benefit of $201 million to recover certain costs approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order and the ICCs December 2006 amended rate order; the impact of the reduction in Generations estimated nuclear asset retirement obligation; mark to market gains associated with Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities; and a charge for a reserve recorded by Generation in 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2006, ComEd recorded a $776 million impairment charge associated with its goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. During 2005, in connection with the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment, ComEd recorded a $1.2 billion charge. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to additional CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to a reduction in 2005 of previously established real estate tax reserves at PECO and Generation and a net increase in utility revenue taxes at ComEd and PECO in 2006, partially offset by favorable state franchise tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects increased interest expense associated with the debt issued in 2005 to fund Exelons voluntary pension contribution; higher interest rates on variable rate debt outstanding; higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for pre 1983 spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE; an interest payment to the IRS associated with the settlement of a tax matter at Generation; and a one time benefit of $87 million approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order to recover previously incurred debt expenses to retire debt early . Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 43.1% for 2006 compared to 49.8% for 2005. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income 78 Table of Contents tax rate from continuing operations by 9.7% and 22.3% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. The results of Sithe are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $12 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2006 and 2005 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 294 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (142 ) (2 ) (140 ) Total $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 639 (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,128 $ 279 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 965 $ 627 (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 79 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 ComEd (112 ) (685 ) 573 PECO 441 517 (76 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 3,978 4,482 504 Operating and maintenance 2,305 2,288 (17 ) Depreciation and amortization 279 254 (25 ) Taxes other than income 185 170 (15 ) Total operating expenses 6,747 7,194 447 Operating income 2,396 1,852 544 Other income and deductions Interest expense (159 ) (128 ) (31 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (1 ) (8 ) Other, net 41 95 (54 ) Total other income and deductions (127 ) (34 ) (93 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,269 1,818 451 Income taxes 866 709 (157 ) Income from continuing operations 1,403 1,109 294 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income from discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,407 1,128 279 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 30 Net income $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 Net Income. Generations net income for 2006 compared to 2005 increased due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense, higher depreciation expense, higher interest expense and lower other income. The increase in Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense was due to realized revenues associated with forward sales contracts entered into in prior periods which were recognized at higher prices, combined with lower purchased power and fuel expense due to the impact of higher 80 Table of Contents nuclear output. Unlike the energy delivery business, the effects of unusually warm or cold weather on Generation depend on the nature of its market position at the time of the unusual weather. Generations net income for 2006 and 2005 reflects income from discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (after tax), respectively. Operating Revenues. For 2006 and 2005, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,674 $ 4,775 $ (101 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,640 3,341 299 8.9 % Total energy sales revenue 8,314 8,116 198 2.4 % Retail gas sales 540 613 (73 ) (11.9 )% Trading portfolio 14 17 (3 ) (17.6 )% Other revenue (a) 275 300 (25 ) (8.3 )% Total revenue $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 1.1 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales, operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. Sales (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 119,354 121,961 (2,607 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 71,326 72,376 (1,050 ) (1.5 )% Total sales 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% Trading volumes of 31,692 GWhs and 26,924 GWhs for 2006 and 2005, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates decreased $101 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $95 million decrease from lower electric sales volume, as well as a net $6 million decrease resulting from lower prices. In the ComEd territories, lower volumes resulted in a $115 million decrease in revenues as a result of lower demand resulting from milder weather year over year. In addition, price decreases totaling $128 million were a result of lower peak prices under the ComEd PPA. In the PECO territories, the higher volumes resulted in increased revenues of $20 million due to higher usage. The favorable price variance of $122 million was primarily the result of the scheduled PAPUC approved generation rate increase as well as to a lesser degree a change in the mix of average pricing related to the PPA with PECO. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase will take effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will have a favorable effect on Generations operating income in future years. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Price $ 353 Volume (54 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 299 81 Table of Contents Wholesale and retail sales increased $299 million due to an increase in realized revenues associated with forward sales entered into in prior periods, which were recognized at higher prices for the year ended December 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, offset by a reduction in volumes sold into the market as a result of lower supply. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales decreased $73 million primarily due to lower volumes for 2006 compared to 2005, resulting in a $69 million decrease. Additionally, there was a decrease of $4 million due to lower realized prices for 2006 compared to 2005. Other revenues. The decrease in 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in fossil fuel sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,610 137,936 1,674 1.2 % Purchases non trading portfolio 38,297 42,623 (4,326 ) (10.1 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 12,773 13,778 (1,005 ) (7.3 )% Total supply 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: (in millions) Price Volume Increase (Decrease) Purchased power costs $ (81 ) $ (319 ) $ (400 ) Generation costs 38 4 42 Fuel resale costs 34 (65 ) (31 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. (115 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (504 ) n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation experienced a decrease of $319 million due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market as a result of a lower demand from affiliates. Additionally, overall lower prices paid for purchased power in 2006 compared to 2005 resulted in a $81 million decrease. Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel costs for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increased prices related to nuclear and fossil fuel generation, resulting in a $38 million increase. Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs in 2006 compared to 2005 were a result of a $65 million decrease in the retail gas business resulting from lower volumes, partially offset by overall higher prices paid for gas. Mark to market. Mark to market gains on power derivative activities were $180 million in 2006 compared to losses of $12 million in 2005. Mark to market losses on fuel derivative activities were $77 million in 2006 compared to zero in 2005. 82 Table of Contents Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2006 and 2005 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2006 2005 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 39.16 $ 39.15 n.m. Wholesale and retail electric sales 51.03 46.16 10.6 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 43.60 41.76 4.4 % Average electric supply cost (a) excluding the trading portfolio $ 18.02 $ 20.11 (10.4 )% Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 25.58 $ 21.65 18.2 % (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. n.m. Not meaningful Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2006 2005 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.85 $ 13.03 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. Although total refueling outage days increased during 2006 compared to 2005, the nuclear fleet capacity factor for the Generation operating nuclear fleet increased due to fewer non refueling outage days during 2006 compared to 2005. For 2006 and 2005, non refueling outage days totaled 71 and 112, respectively, and refueling outage days totaled 237 and 217, respectively. Higher costs for nuclear fuel, costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days, higher costs for refueling outage inspection and maintenance activities, costs for the tritium related expenses, an NRC fee increase, and inflationary cost increases for normal plant operations and maintenance offset the higher number of MWhs generated resulting in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2006 as compared to 2005. There were ten planned refueling outages and sixteen non refueling outages during 2006 compared to nine planned refueling outages and twenty five non refueling outages during 2005 at the Generation operated nuclear stations. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Pension, payroll and benefit costs $ 153 Contractor expenses 22 Nuclear refueling outage costs including the co owned Salem plant 19 NRC fees 11 Godley contribution 11 Tritium related expense 9 Reduction in ARO (a) (149 ) 2005 accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (b) (43 ) 2005 co owner settlement with PSEG related to postretirement benefits (17 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 17 (a) For further discussion, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) For further discussion, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 83 Table of Contents The $17 million increase in operating and maintenance expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a $153 million increase in various payroll related expenses, including increased stock based compensation expense of $41 million primarily as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R as of January 1, 2006 and increased direct and allocated costs related to payroll, severance, pension and other postretirement benefits, a $22 million period over period increase in contractor costs, primarily related to staff augmentation and recurring maintenance work at Nuclear and Power, a $19 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days during 2006 as compared to 2005, and higher costs for inspection and maintenance activities. Additionally, on December 22, 2006, as a gesture of goodwill and corporate citizenship, Generation contributed approximately $11 million into an escrow account to assist the Godley Public Water District with the installation of a new public drinking water system for the Village of Godley. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 was a result of recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income incurred during 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to increasing the property tax reserve for 2006 property taxes for Byron, Clinton and Dresden, higher payroll related taxes which were the result of higher payroll costs for 2006 and a reduction recorded in 2005 of a previously established real estate reserve associated with the settlement over the TMI real estate assessment. The increases were partially offset by a sales and use tax reserve recorded during the third quarter of 2005 and a gas revenue tax adjustment recorded during the fourth quarter of 2005. Interest Expense. The increase in interest expense during 2006 as compared to 2005 was attributable to higher variable interest rates on debt outstanding, higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE and an interest payment made to the IRS in settlement of a tax matter. Other, Net. The decrease in other income in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to gains realized in the second quarter of 2005 totaling $36 million related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants due to changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 38.2% for 2006 compared to 39.0% for 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe have been presented as discontinued operations within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Generations net income in 2006 and 2005 reflects a gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (both after tax), respectively. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $15 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the second quarter of 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications, accrued interest and collections on receivables arising from the sale of Sithe that had been fully reserved. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 84 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) Operating expenses Purchased power 3,292 3,520 228 Operating and maintenance 745 833 88 Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 430 413 (17 ) Taxes other than income 303 303 Total operating expense 5,546 6,276 730 Operating income (loss) 555 (12 ) 567 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (308 ) (291 ) (17 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (10 ) (14 ) 4 Other, net 96 4 92 Total other income and deductions (222 ) (301 ) 79 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 333 (313 ) 646 Income taxes 445 363 (82 ) Loss before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (112 ) (676 ) 564 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) 9 Net loss $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 573 Net Loss. ComEds decreased net loss in 2006 compared to 2005 was driven by a smaller impairment of goodwill in 2006, lower purchased power expense and one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July 2006 and December 2006 ICC rate orders as more fully described below, partially offset by lower operating revenues. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Weather $ (226 ) Customer choice (67 ) Volume 84 Rate changes and mix 23 Retail revenue (186 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 28 Mark to market contracts (5 ) Other revenues 23 Decrease in operating revenues $ (163 ) Weather. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months 85 Table of Contents and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity. Conversely, mild weather in non summer months reduces demand. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 20% and 8% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2006, one competitive electric generation supplier had been granted approval to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, they are not currently supplying electricity to any residential customers. For 2006 and 2005, 23% and 21%, respectively, of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. Most of the customers previously receiving energy under the PPO are now electing either to buy their power from a competitive electric generation supplier or from ComEd under bundled rates. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 20,787 19,310 Percentage of total retail deliveries 23 % 21 % Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 20,300 21,300 Percentage of total retail customers (b ) (b ) Volume (GWhs) (a) 25,521 30,905 Percentage of total retail deliveries 28 % 33 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Volume. Revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers. Rate changes and mix. The increase in revenue related to rate and mix changes represents differences in year over year consumption between various customer classes offset by a decline in the CTC paid by customers of competitive electric generation suppliers due to the increase in market energy prices. The average rate paid by various customers is dependent on the amount and time of day that the power is consumed. Changes in customer consumption patterns, including increased usage, can result in an overall decrease in the average rate even though the tariff or rate schedule remains unchanged. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Starting in January 2007, ComEd began collecting revenues consistent with the approved ICC orders in the Procurement Case and the Rate Case. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. The wholesale and miscellaneous revenues increase primarily reflects an increase in transmission revenue reflecting increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Mark to market contracts. Mark to market contracts primarily reflect a mark to market loss associated with one wholesale contract that had previously been recorded as a normal sale under SFAS No. 133 in 2005. This contract expires in December 2007. 86 Table of Contents Purchased Power Expense. The changes in purchased power expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Prices $ (135 ) Weather (111 ) Customer choice (56 ) PJM transmission (6 ) Volume 42 SECA rates 38 Decrease in purchased power expense $ (228 ) Prices. Purchased power decreased due to the decrease in contracted energy prices under the PPA that ComEd had with Generation. The PPA contract was entered into in March 2004 and reflected forward power prices in existence at that time. The PPA terminated at the end of 2006 and was replaced with the reverse auction process in 2007, which was approved by the ICC. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Weather. The decrease in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Customer choice. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. PJM transmission. The decrease in PJM transmission expense reflects a decrease in ancillary charges, partially offset by increased peak demand and consumption by ComEd supplied customers. Volume. The amount of purchased power attributable to volume increased as a result of increased usage by ComEd supplied customers on a weather normalized basis versus the same period in 2005. SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. These charges were being collected subject to refund as they are being disputed. As a result of current events related to SECA disputes, during the first quarter of 2006, ComEd increased its reserve for amounts to be refunded. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. As ComEd was a net collector of SECA charges, the 2005 purchased power expense, which reflected a full year of SECA collections, was lower than 2006, which reflected only three months of SECA collections, due to the expiration of SECA charges on March 31, 2006. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the SECA rates. 87 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ (201 ) Fringe benefits (b) 43 Severance related expenses 17 Wages and salaries 17 Customers Affordable Reliable Energy (CARE) program (c) 9 Environmental costs 5 Rent and lease expense 5 Storm costs 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Other 11 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (88 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC order on rehearing, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses, including MGP costs, severance costs and procurement case costs. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits, including increased stock based compensation expense of $24 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006 and increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs of $14 million. (c) See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2006 annual goodwill impairment assessment (performed in the fourth quarter) resulted in no additional impairment. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd had approximately $2.7 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds PPA with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 12 Other amortization expense 5 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 17 88 Table of Contents In 2007, ComEds amortization will reflect the elimination of the recoverable transition costs regulatory asset and the initial amortization of the various regulatory assets authorized by the ICC in its July and December 2006 orders. See Notes 4, 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income remained constant in 2006 compared to 2005. Interest Expense, Net. The increase in interest expense, net in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily resulted from higher debt balances and higher interest rates. In 2007, ComEds interest expense, net will reflect the initial amortization of the regulatory asset related to the early debt retirement costs authorized by the ICC in its July 2006 order. See Notes 4, 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 87 Loss on settlement of 2005 cash flow swaps 15 Sale of receivable in 2005 (3 ) Loss on disposition of assets and investments, net (3 ) Other (4 ) Increase in other, net $ 92 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded a one time benefit associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. See Notes 4, 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 133.6% and (116.0)% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income tax rate by 81.6% in 2006 and decreased the effective income tax rate by 135.0% in 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 89 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 28,330 30,042 (1,712 ) (5.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 24,122 21,378 2,744 12.8 % Large commercial & industrial 10,336 7,904 2,432 30.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,254 2,133 121 5.7 % Total full service 65,042 61,457 3,585 5.8 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 2,475 5,591 (3,116 ) (55.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 2,259 6,004 (3,745 ) (62.4 )% 4,734 11,595 (6,861 ) (59.2 )% Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,505 5,677 (172 ) (3.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 15,282 13,633 1,649 12.1 % 20,787 19,310 1,477 7.6 % Total PPO and delivery only 25,521 30,905 (5,384 ) (17.4 )% Total retail deliveries 90,563 92,362 (1,799 ) (1.9 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,453 $ 2,584 $ (131 ) (5.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,882 1,671 211 12.6 % Large commercial & industrial 563 408 155 38.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 137 132 5 3.8 % Total full service 5,035 4,795 240 5.0 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 178 385 (207 ) (53.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 137 345 (208 ) (60.3 )% 315 730 (415 ) (56.8 )% Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 85 95 (10 ) (10.5 )% Large commercial & industrial 155 156 (1 ) (0.6 )% 240 251 (11 ) (4.4 )% Total PPO and delivery only 555 981 (426 ) (43.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 5,590 5,776 (186 ) (3.2 )% Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 516 488 28 5.7 % Mark to market contracts (5 ) (5 ) n.m. Total operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) (2.6 )% (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. 90 Table of Contents (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC through December 2006. (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC through December 2006. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. n.m. Not meaningful Results of Operations PECO 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 258 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 2,702 2,515 (187 ) Operating and maintenance 628 549 (79 ) Depreciation and amortization 710 566 (144 ) Taxes other than income 262 231 (31 ) Total operating expense 4,302 3,861 (441 ) Operating income 866 1,049 (183 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (266 ) (279 ) 13 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (16 ) 7 Other, net 30 13 17 Total other income and deductions (245 ) (282 ) 37 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 621 767 (146 ) Income taxes 180 247 67 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 441 520 (79 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) 3 Net income 441 517 (76 ) Preferred stock dividends 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 437 $ 513 $ (76 ) Net Income. PECOs net income in 2006 decreased primarily due to higher CTC amortization and higher operating and maintenance expense, which reflected higher storm costs. Partially offsetting these factors were higher revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense. Higher net revenues reflected certain authorized electric rate increases, including a scheduled CTC rate increase, partially offset by lower net electric and gas revenues as a result of unfavorable weather relative to the prior year. The increases in CTC amortization expense and CTC rates were in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC. The increase in CTC amortization expense exceeded the increase in CTC revenues. 91 Table of Contents Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Rate increases $ 237 $ 127 $ 364 Customer choice 62 62 Unbilled revenue change in estimate 35 35 Volume 20 (10 ) 10 Weather (91 ) (130 ) (221 ) Other rate changes and mix (10 ) (10 ) Retail revenue 253 (13 ) 240 Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 26 (8 ) 18 Increase (decrease) in operating revenues $ 279 $ (21 ) $ 258 Rate increases. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases reflects scheduled CTC and generation rate increases in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC and the elimination of the aggregate $200 million electric distribution rate reductions over the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005 (approximately $40 million in 2005) related to the PAPUCs approval of the merger between PECO and ComEd. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase took effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will not affect operating income as PECO will incur corresponding and offsetting purchased power expenses under its PPA with Generation. The increase in gas revenues was due to net increases in rates through PAPUC approved quarterly changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was 30% higher than the average rate for the same period in 2005. While PECOs average purchased gas cost rate was higher in 2006 compared to 2005, quarterly changes to purchased gas cost rates since March 1, 2006 have resulted in decreases to the rates, with the September 1, 2006 and December 1, 2006 rate decreases resulting in lower rates in 2006 compared to comparable periods in 2005. This trend will continue into the first quarter of 2007, during the peak of PECOs winter heating season, as first quarter 2007 rates will be significantly lower than first quarter 2006 rates. Customer choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. For 2006 and 2005, 2% and 5%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 34,400 44,500 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 3 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 767 2,094 Percentage of total retail deliveries 2 % 5 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). 92 Table of Contents The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice reflected customers from all customer classes returning to PECO as their electric supplier as a result of rising wholesale energy prices and a number of competitive electric generation suppliers exiting the market during 2005 and 2006. Unbilled revenue change in estimate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, PECO recorded a $35 million increase to unbilled electric revenues associated with a change in estimate in the amount of revenue recognized, although unbilled, at the end of 2006. As discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, the nature of the unbilled revenue calculation is inherently an estimation process. As a result of Exelons integration efforts associated with its then pending merger with PSEG, analyses received from a third party consultant, and PECOs implementation of a new customer information management system in the fourth quarter 2006, PECO received new information with which to better analyze the data underlying its unbilled revenue calculation. This amount is partially offset by a $14 million increase in purchased power expense as noted below. Volume. The increase in electric revenues was primarily as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, primarily due to an increased number of customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating and cooling degree days were 18% and 15% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Other rate changes and mix. The decrease in electric revenues attributable to other rate changes and mix was primarily due to increased large commercial and industrial sales, which are billed at lower rates relative to other customer classes, and lower rates for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were lower in the latter part of 2006 relative to 2005. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. The increase in electric revenues was primarily due to increased PJM transmission revenue and increased sales of energy into the PJM spot market. If PECOs energy needs are less than the daily amount scheduled, the excess is sold into the PJM spot market. Revenues from these sales are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas revenues was due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Prices $ 94 $ 127 $ 221 Customer choice 62 62 PJM transmission 31 31 Unbilled revenue change in estimate 14 14 Weather (39 ) (107 ) (146 ) Volume 4 (13 ) (9 ) Other 20 (6 ) 14 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 186 $ 1 $ 187 93 Table of Contents Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased $87 million corresponding to the increase in electric revenues which was attributable to the scheduled PAPUC approved generation rate increase. In addition, PECOs purchased power expense increased $7 million due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher average gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to customers from all customer classes returning to PECO as their electric supplier, primarily as a result of rising wholesale energy prices and a number of competitive electric generation suppliers exiting the market during 2005 and 2006. PJM transmission. The increase in PJM transmission expense reflects increased peak demand and consumption by PECO supplied customers due to load growth as well as an increase in PECO supplied customers driven by more customers choosing PECO for supply due to competitive electric generation suppliers higher market prices. Unbilled revenue change in estimate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, PECO recorded a $14 million increase to purchased power associated with a change in estimate for unbilled electric revenue as the energy component of the estimate change is passed onto Generation. Weather. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to lower demand as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Volume. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was primarily due to an increased number of customers. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Other. The increase in electric purchased power expense was primarily due to increased energy purchases in the PJM spot market. If PECOs energy needs are greater than the daily amount scheduled, the shortfall is secured through purchases in the PJM spot market. These additional costs are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas fuel expense was related to decreased off system sales. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Storm costs $ 36 Contractors (a) 14 Allowance for uncollectible accounts (b) 13 Fringe benefits (c) 11 Severance related expenses 6 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Injuries and damages (6 ) Environmental reserve (d) (4 ) Other 7 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 79 (a) Reflects higher professional fees, including $9 million associated with tax consulting, and various other increases. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding tax consulting fees. 94 Table of Contents (b) Reflects the following factors, all of which increased expense in 2006 as compared to 2005: (i) higher average accounts receivable balances in 2006 compared to 2005 resulting from increased revenues; (ii) changes in PAPUC approved regulations related to customer payment terms; and (iii) an increase in the number of low income customers participating in customer assistance programs, which allow for the forgiveness of certain receivables. (c) Reflects increased stock based compensation expense of $11 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006. (d) Represents a settlement related to one Superfund site in the first quarter of 2006. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) CTC amortization (a) $ 146 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (4 ) Other depreciation and amortization expense 2 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 144 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The new system was implemented in the fourth quarter 2006. Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 14 State franchise tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (b) 10 Real estate tax adjustment in 2005 (c) 6 Sales and use tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (2 ) Other 3 Increase in taxes other than income $ 31 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 of $7 million following settlements related to prior year tax assessments and the $17 million reduction of an accrual in 2005 related to prior years. (c) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in 2005 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to scheduled payments on long term debt owed to PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with the September 2006 issuance of $300 million First Mortgage Bonds, higher interest rates on variable rate long term debt and an increased amount of commercial paper outstanding at higher rates. Other, Net. The increase in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to interest income associated with an investment tax credit refund of $11 million and interest income associated with a research and development credit refund of $10 million in 2006. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of other, net. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement for additional information regarding the investment tax credit and research and development credit refunds. 95 Table of Contents Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in net interest expense of PETT due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 29.0% for 2006 compared to 32.2% for 2005. The lower effective tax rate in 2006 reflects investment tax credit and research and development credit refunds in 2006. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 12,796 13,135 (339 ) (2.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 7,818 7,263 555 7.6 % Large commercial & industrial 15,898 15,205 693 4.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 906 962 (56 ) (5.8 )% Total full service 37,418 36,565 853 2.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 61 334 (273 ) (81.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 671 1,257 (586 ) (46.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 35 503 (468 ) (93.0 )% Total delivery only 767 2,094 (1,327 ) (63.4 )% Total retail deliveries 38,185 38,659 (474 ) (1.2 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,780 $ 1,705 $ 75 4.4 % Small commercial & industrial 943 818 125 15.3 % Large commercial & industrial 1,286 1,173 113 9.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 83 84 (1 ) (1.2 )% Total full service 4,092 3,780 312 8.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 5 25 (20 ) (80.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 36 63 (27 ) (42.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 1 13 (12 ) (92.3 )% Total delivery only 42 101 (59 ) (58.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,134 3,881 253 6.5 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 238 212 26 12.3 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,372 $ 4,093 $ 279 6.8 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. 96 Table of Contents (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales 50,578 59,751 (9,173 ) (15.4 )% Transportation 25,527 25,310 217 0.9 % Total 76,105 85,061 (8,956 ) (10.5 )% Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 770 $ 783 $ (13 ) (1.7 )% Transportation 16 16 % Resales and other 10 18 (8 ) (44.4 )% Total gas revenue $ 796 $ 817 $ (21 ) (2.6 )% Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Results of OperationsExelon 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 1,224 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel expense 5,670 4,929 (741 ) Operating and maintenance expense 3,694 3,700 6 Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,334 1,295 (39 ) Taxes other than income 728 710 (18 ) Total operating expenses 12,633 10,634 (1,999 ) Operating income 2,724 3,499 (775 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense (513 ) (471 ) (42 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (316 ) (357 ) 41 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (134 ) (154 ) 20 Other, net 134 60 74 Total other income and deductions (829 ) (922 ) 93 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,895 2,577 (682 ) Income taxes 944 713 (231 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 951 1,864 (913 ) Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 951 1,870 (919 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 14 (29 ) 43 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 965 1,841 (876 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 23 (65 ) Net income $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) Diluted earnings per share $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ (1.42 ) 97 Table of Contents Net Income. Net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1.2 billion associated with ComEds goodwill and losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47, partially offset by higher realized prices on market sales at Generation and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Net income for 2004 reflects income of $32 million for the adoption of FIN 46 R, partially offset by a loss of $9 million related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 16, Accounting for Investments in Limited Liability Companies (EITF 03 16). See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the adoption of FIN 46 R. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to increased revenues at ComEd and PECO and increased revenues from non affiliates at Generation. The increase in revenues at ComEd and PECO was primarily due to favorable weather conditions, an increase in the number of customers choosing ComEd or PECO as their electric supplier and higher transmission revenues, partially offset by decreased CTC collections at ComEd. The increase in revenues from non affiliates at Generation was primarily due to higher prices on energy sold in the market, partially offset by an increase in the percentage of energy produced and sold to ComEd and PECO and the sale of Boston Generating in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased primarily due to overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices, partially offset by the decrease in fuel expense due to the sale of Boston Generating in 2004, favorable mark to market adjustments related to non trading activities and the expiration of the PPA with Midwest Generation in 2004. Purchased power represented 22% of Generations total supply in 2005 compared to 24% in 2004. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a gain recorded in 2004 related to the DOE settlement, an increase to the reserve for the estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims that was recorded in 2005, higher costs associated with planned nuclear refueling outages, and increased costs related to an operating agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc. (formerly Sithe International, Inc.), partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and decreased severance and benefit expense. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2005, in connection with the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment, ComEd recorded a $1.2 billion charge. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to additional plant placed in service, additional amortization of the CTC at PECO and accelerated amortization of PECOs current customer information and billing system, partially offset by the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units in 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense. Operating Income. Exclusive of the changes in operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense, operating and maintenance expense, impairment of goodwill and depreciation and amortization expense discussed above, the change in operating income was the result of increased taxes other than income, partially offset by the sale of Boston Generating in 2004 and reduced property tax expense. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects a 2004 charge at ComEd associated with the accelerated retirement of debt and the related reduction in interest expense from these debt retirements and increased realized gains related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, partially offset by increased interest expense on short term debt at Exelon, increased losses from Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities and an $85 million gain recorded in 2004 on the sale of Boston Generating. 98 Table of Contents Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 49.8% for 2005 compared to 27.7% for 2004. The goodwill impairment charge increased the effective income tax rate from continuing operations by 22.3% for 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises and AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe, certain Enterprises businesses and AllEnergy as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe. The results of Sithe and AllEnergy are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations increased by $43 million from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2005 and 2004 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,109 $ 657 $ 452 ComEd (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Other (a) (2 ) 82 (84 ) Total $ 951 $ 1,870 $ (919 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,128 $ 641 $ 487 ComEd (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) PECO 520 455 65 Other (a) (7 ) 69 (76 ) Total $ 965 $ 1,841 $ (876 ) 99 Table of Contents (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 ComEd (685 ) 676 (1,361 ) PECO 517 455 62 Other (a) (7 ) 60 (67 ) Total $ 923 $ 1,864 $ (941 ) (a) Other includes corporate operations, shared service entities, including BSC, Enterprises, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 4,482 4,011 (471 ) Operating and maintenance 2,288 2,201 (87 ) Depreciation and amortization 254 286 32 Taxes other than income 170 166 (4 ) Total operating expenses 7,194 6,664 (530 ) Operating income 1,852 1,039 813 Other income and deductions Interest expense (128 ) (103 ) (25 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (1 ) (14 ) 13 Other, net 95 130 (35 ) Total other income and deductions (34 ) 13 (47 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,818 1,052 766 Income taxes 709 401 (308 ) Income from continuing operations before minority interest 1,109 651 458 Minority interest 6 (6 ) Income from continuing operations 1,109 657 452 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations (16 ) 16 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 19 19 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 19 (16 ) 35 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,128 641 487 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 32 (62 ) Net income $ 1,098 $ 673 $ 425 100 Table of Contents Net Income. Generations net income in 2005 increased $425 million as compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense and interest expense. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased $872 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. This increase was driven by the contractual increase in prices associated with Generations PPA with ComEd and higher average margins on wholesale market sales as higher spot market prices more than compensated for higher fuel prices and the impact of higher nuclear generation. Operating Revenues. For 2005 and 2004, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,775 $ 3,749 $ 1,026 27.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,341 3,227 114 3.5 % Total energy sales revenue 8,116 6,976 1,140 16.3 % Retail gas sales 613 448 165 36.8 % Trading portfolio 17 17 n.m. Other revenue (a) 300 279 21 7.5 % Total revenue $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 1,343 17.4 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales, operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. n.m. Not meaningful Sales (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 121,961 110,465 11,496 10.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 72,376 92,134 (19,758 ) (21.4 )% Total sales 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% Trading volumes of 26,924 GWhs and 24,001 GWhs for 2005 and 2004, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates increased $1,026 million in 2005 as compared to the prior year. The increase in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $635 million increase from overall higher prices associated with Generations PPA with ComEd and a $391 million increase from higher electric sales volume. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement as of April 30, 2004 with ComEd, effective January 1, 2005, Generation began receiving overall higher prices from ComEd for its purchased power. The higher sales volumes to ComEd and PECO resulted from favorable weather conditions in the summer and winter periods in the ComEd and PECO service territories and an increase in the number of customers returning from competitive electric generation suppliers in 2005 compared to the prior year. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 879 Volume (526 ) Sale of Boston Generating (239 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 114 (a) Sales to Boston Generating of $9 million were included in other revenue for 2004. 101 Table of Contents Wholesale and retail sales increased $114 million due to an increase in market prices in 2005 compared to the prior year. The increase in market prices was primarily driven by higher fuel prices (e.g. oil and natural gas). The increase in price was partially offset by lower volumes of generation capacity sold to the market in 2005 as compared to 2004. Generation had less power to sell into the market as a result of higher demand for power sold to affiliates in 2005 and the expiration of its PPA with Midwest Generation in 2004. The remaining decrease in wholesale and retail sales of $239 million was due to the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales increased $165 million primarily due to significantly higher gas prices in the overall market. Trading portfolio. Trading portfolio income increased $17 million in 2005 compared to the prior year due to an increase in trading volumes. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Proprietary Trading Activities for further information. Other revenues. The increase in other revenues in 2005 was primarily due to an increase of $60 million associated with revenue from Generations operating services agreements with PSEG and Tamuin International, Inc. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $39 million related to lower fuel sales, a reduction in decommissioning revenue from ComEd and lower sales from tolling and gas management agreements. The increased revenue from the operating services agreements was substantially offset by a corresponding increase in Generations operating and maintenance expense. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 137,936 136,621 1,315 1.0 % Purchases non trading portfolio 42,623 48,968 (6,345 ) (13.0 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 13,778 17,010 (3,232 ) (19.0 )% Total supply 194,337 202,599 (8,262 ) (4.1 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Price Volume Increase (Decrease) Purchased power costs $ 654 $ (327 ) $ 327 Generation costs 198 16 214 Fuel resale costs 149 (2 ) 147 Sale of Boston Generating n.m. n.m. (226 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. 9 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 471 n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity (i.e., capacity, energy and fuel costs). Generation experienced overall higher realized prices for purchased power in 2005 compared to 2004, resulting in a $654 million increase. This was offset by a decrease of $327 million due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market as a result of more demand from affiliates. 102 Table of Contents Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel cost for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs for 2005 compared to 2004 due to overall energy market conditions resulting in higher prices for raw materials (e.g., oil, natural gas and coal) used in the production of electricity. Additionally, there was an increase of $16 million related to higher nuclear and fossil generation need to meet affiliates demand. Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchase and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs in 2005 as compared to 2004 consisted of overall higher realized gas prices, offset by a $2 million volume decrease in the gas retail business. Sale of Boston Generating. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense associated with Boston Generating was due to the sale of the business in May 2004. Mark to market. Mark to market losses on power derivative activities were $12 million for 2005 compared to losses of $3 million for 2004. Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2005 and 2004 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2005 2004 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 39.15 $ 33.94 15.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 46.16 35.03 31.8 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 41.76 34.43 21.3 % Average electric supply cost (b) excluding the trading portfolio $ 20.11 $ 17.60 14.3 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 21.65 $ 16.83 28.6 % (a) The increase in $/MWh was due to higher prices in 2005 associated with Generations PPA with ComEd. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2005 and 2004 were as follows: 2005 2004 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.5 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.03 $ 12.43 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. Generations nuclear fleet capacity factor was the same in 2005 as 2004. Higher costs associated with the planned refuel outages and higher non outage operating costs resulted in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2005 as compared to 2004. There were nine planned refueling outages and 25 non refueling outages in 2005 compared to nine planned refuel outages and 20 non refueling outages in 2004. During 2004, both Quad Cities units operated intermittently at Extended Power Uprate (EPU) generation levels due to performance issues with their steam dryers. As of the third quarter of 2005, both of the Quad Cities units returned to EPU generation levels after extensive testing and load verification on new replacement steam dryers was completed. Near the end of 2005, the generation levels of both Quad Cities units were again reduced to pre EPU generation levels to address vibration related equipment issues not directly related to the steam dryers. The units will be brought back to full EPU generation levels after all issues are addressed to ensure safe and reliable operations at the EPU output levels which is expected to occur in 2006. 103 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs $ 78 DOE settlement in 2004 42 Tamuin International 44 Accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims 43 Nuclear operating services agreement 14 Pension, payroll and benefit costs (58 ) Boston Generating (62 ) Decommissioning related activity (38 ) Other 24 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 87 This net $87 million increase was attributable to the following: A $78 million increase in nuclear refueling and non outage operating costs due to an increase in nuclear maintenance costs of $44 million related to planned nuclear refueling outages for plants operated by Generation and the co owned Salem Generating Station, and increases in other nuclear operating and maintenance expenses of $34 million, primarily security and inflationary costs; A $42 million reimbursement in 2004 of costs incurred prior to 2004 for the storage of spent nuclear fuel associated with the DOE settlement agreement; A $44 million increase in expenses associated with Generations operating service agreement with a subsidiary of Tamuin International, Inc; The establishment of a $43 million liability in June 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (see further discussion in Note 17 to the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); and Costs of $14 million in 2005 associated with the Salem and Hope Creek Operating Services Agreement with PSEG, the reimbursement of which is included in other revenues. The increases in operating and maintenance expense described above were partially offset by lower payroll related expenses (a $58 million reduction), the elimination of $62 million in expenses at Boston Generating due to its sale in May 2004 and a $36 million reduction in the contractual obligation that Generation has to ComEd related to decommissioning obligations (which is included in the $38 million of decommissioning related activity in the table above). Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to the establishment of an ARC asset for retired nuclear units of $36 million recorded in the third quarter of 2004 which was immediately impaired through depreciation expense as this asset was associated with retired nuclear units that do not have any remaining useful life. This decrease was partially offset by increased depreciation expense due to recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income for 2005 as compared to 2004 was primarily due to a net increase in Generations reserves related to payroll taxes, sales and use taxes and other taxes other than income, partially offset by a reduction in taxes resulting from the sale of Boston Generating in May 2004. Other, Net. The decrease in other income for 2005 as compared to the prior year was primarily due to the $85 million gain ($52 million, net of taxes) on the disposal of Boston Generating recorded in 104 Table of Contents May 2004, partially offset by gains of $36 million realized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 39.0% for 2005 compared to 38.1% for 2004. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Generation sold or wound down substantially all components of AllEnergy, a business within Exelon Energy. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe and results of AllEnergy have been presented as discontinued operations for 2005 within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithes and AllEnergys results of operations as discontinued operations and the sale of Sithe as discontinued operations. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidation of Sithe in accordance with FIN 46 R as of March 31, 2004. See Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the consolidation of Sithe and the adoption of FIN 47, respectively. Results of OperationsComEd 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 Operating expenses Purchased power 3,520 2,588 (932 ) Operating and maintenance 833 897 64 Impairment of goodwill 1,207 (1,207 ) Depreciation and amortization 413 410 (3 ) Taxes other than income 303 291 (12 ) Total operating expense 6,276 4,186 (2,090 ) Operating income (loss) (12 ) 1,617 (1,629 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (291 ) (349 ) 58 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (14 ) (19 ) 5 Net loss on extinguishment of long term debt (130 ) 130 Other, net 4 14 (10 ) Total other income and deductions (301 ) (484 ) 183 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (313 ) 1,133 (1,446 ) Income taxes 363 457 94 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (676 ) 676 (1,352 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) (9 ) Net income (loss) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ (1,361 ) 105 Table of Contents Net Loss. ComEds net loss in 2005 was driven by the impairment of goodwill and higher purchased power expense, partially offset by higher operating revenues due to favorable weather and due to the impacts of a 2004 charge associated with the accelerated retirement of long term debt and lower interest expense. Operating Revenues. The changes in operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Weather $ 415 Customer choice 81 Rate changes and mix (66 ) Volume (3 ) Other (9 ) Retail revenue 418 PJM transmission 58 T&O / SECA rates (28 ) Miscellaneous revenues 13 Other revenues 43 Increase in operating revenues $ 461 Weather. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions in 2005 compared to 2004. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 90% and 1% higher, respectively, than the prior year. Customer choice. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2005, one competitive electric generation supplier was approved to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, they are not currently supplying electricity to any residential customers. For 2005 and 2004, 33% and 35% of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers or under the PPO. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 19,310 20,939 Percentage of total retail deliveries 21 % 24 % Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 21,300 22,200 Percentage of total retail customers (b) (b) Volume (GWhs) (a) 30,905 30,426 Percentage of total retail deliveries 33 % 35 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Rate changes and mix. The change was primarily due to the increased wholesale market price of electricity and other adjustments to the energy component of the CTC calculation which resulted in a decrease of $64 million to $105 million in 2005 as compared to 2004. 106 Table of Contents PJM transmission. ComEds transmission revenues increased in 2005 due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM. T&O / SECA rates. Revenues decreased as a result of the elimination of T&O rates in accordance with FERC orders that became effective December 1, 2004. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd, and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power Expense below. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. Purchased Power Expense. The changes in purchased power expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase (decrease) Prices $ 606 Weather 200 Customer choice 65 PJM 63 Volume 7 T&O collections / SECA rates (15 ) Other 6 Increase in purchased power expense $ 932 Prices. Purchased power increased due to higher prices associated with ComEds PPA with Generation of $497 million, and ancillary services of $109 million from PJM. In 2000, ComEd and Generation entered into a PPA that fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2004 based upon the then current market prices. As a result of the Amended and Restated Purchase Power Agreement with Generation, starting in January 1, 2005, ComEd began paying higher prices for its purchased power from Generation and ceased to procure its ancillary services from Generation. This agreement fixed the pricing for purchased power through December 31, 2006 based upon the current market prices as of April 30, 2004. Weather. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory, which increased the amount of electricity sold. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to fewer ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. PJM. The increase reflects higher transmission and purchased power expense of $57 million due to ComEds May 1, 2004 entry into PJM and PJM administrative fees that increased by $6 million over 2004 fees. T&O Collections / SECA rates. Prior to FERC orders issued in November 2004, ComEd collected T&O rates for transmission service scheduled out of or across ComEds transmission system. Rates collected as the transmission owner were recorded in operating revenues. After joining PJM on May 1, 2004, PJM allocated T&O collections to ComEd as a load serving entity. The collections received by ComEd as a load serving entity were recorded as a decrease to purchased power expense. ComEds purchased power expense increased $14 million due to ComEd no longer collecting T&O revenues in 2005. 107 Table of Contents Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005, ComEd recorded SECA collections net of SECA charges of $29 million. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O /SECA rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Severance related expenses (a) $ (47 ) Employee fringe benefits (b) (18 ) Pension expense and deferred compensation (c) (15 ) Allowance for uncollectible accounts (13 ) Injuries and damages (2 ) Corporate allocations (b) 15 Storm costs 14 Contractors 12 PSEG merger integration costs 8 Other (18 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (64 ) (a) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other postretirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 as compared to 2004. (b) Excludes severance related expenses and pension expense. Reflects fewer employees compared to prior year and a reduction in 2005 related to estimated medical plan fees. A portion of the employee reduction is offset by an increase in corporate allocations. (c) Pension expense in 2005 is lower than in 2004 due in large part to significant pension plan contributions made in the first quarter of 2005. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds PPA with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd has approximately $3.5 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2005. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense $ 17 Other amortization expense (14 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 3 The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. The decrease in other amortization expense was primarily due to completing the amortization of one of ComEds software packages in 2004. 108 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 13 Tax refund (b) 6 Other (7 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 12 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) During 2004, a refund was received for Illinois electricity distribution taxes. Interest Expense, Net. The reduction in interest expense, net for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to long term debt retirements and prepayments in 2004 pursuant to Exelons accelerated liability management plan and scheduled payments on long term debt owed to the ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, partially offset by a $16 million decrease in interest income on the long term receivable from UII, LLC as a result of this receivable being repaid in late 2004. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Long Term Debt. In 2004, Exelon initiated an accelerated liability management plan at ComEd that resulted in the retirement of approximately $768 million of long term debt, of which $618 million was retired during the third quarter of 2004. During 2004, ComEd recorded a charge of $130 million associated with the retirement of debt under the plan. The components of this charge included the following: $86 million related to prepayment premiums; $12 million related to net unamortized premiums, discounts and debt issuance costs; $24 million of losses on reacquired debt previously deferred as regulatory assets; and $12 million related to settled cash flow interest rate swaps previously deferred as regulatory assets partially offset by $4 million of unamortized gain on settled fair value interest rate swaps. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2005 compared to 2004 included a $15 million loss on settlement of cash flow swaps in 2005. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was (116.0)% and 40.3% for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The goodwill impairment charge decreased the effective income tax rate by 135.0% in 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 109 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 30,042 26,463 3,579 13.5 % Small commercial & industrial 21,378 21,662 (284 ) (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 7,904 6,913 991 14.3 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,133 1,893 240 12.7 % Total full service 61,457 56,931 4,526 7.9 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 5,591 4,110 1,481 36.0 % Large commercial & industrial 6,004 5,377 627 11.7 % 11,595 9,487 2,108 22.2 % Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,677 6,305 (628 ) (10.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 13,633 14,634 (1,001 ) (6.8 )% 19,310 20,939 (1,629 ) (7.8 )% Total PPO and delivery only 30,905 30,426 479 1.6 % Total retail deliveries 92,362 87,357 5,005 5.7 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,584 $ 2,295 $ 289 12.6 % Small commercial & industrial 1,671 1,649 22 1.3 % Large commercial & industrial 408 380 28 7.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 132 126 6 4.8 % Total full service 4,795 4,450 345 7.8 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 385 274 111 40.5 % Large commercial & industrial 345 304 41 13.5 % 730 578 152 26.3 % Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 95 128 (33 ) (25.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 156 204 (48 ) (23.5 )% 251 332 (81 ) (24.4 )% Total PPO and delivery only 981 910 71 7.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,776 5,360 416 7.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (d) 488 443 45 10.2 % Total operating revenues $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 461 7.9 % (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC. 110 Table of Contents (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. Prior to ComEds full integration into PJM on May 1, 2004, ComEds transmission charges received from competitive electric generation suppliers were included in wholesale and miscellaneous revenue. (d) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. Results of Operations PECO 2005 2004 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 423 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 2,515 2,172 (343 ) Operating and maintenance 549 547 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 566 518 (48 ) Taxes other than income 231 236 5 Total operating expense 3,861 3,473 (388 ) Operating income 1,049 1,014 35 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (279 ) (303 ) 24 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) (25 ) 9 Other, net 13 18 (5 ) Total other income and deductions (282 ) (310 ) 28 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 767 704 63 Income taxes 247 249 2 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 520 455 65 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) (3 ) Net income 517 455 62 Preferred stock dividends 4 3 (1 ) Net income on common stock $ 513 $ 452 $ 61 Net Income. PECOs net income in 2005 increased primarily as a result of higher revenues, net of related purchased power expense, due to favorable weather and lower interest expense due to the scheduled retirement of debt owed to PETT, partially offset by higher CTC amortization. Operating Revenues. The changes in PECOs operating revenues for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Rate changes and mix $ 72 $ 90 $ 162 Customer choice 118 118 Volume 101 (21 ) 80 Weather 54 10 64 Retail revenue 345 79 424 T&O / SECA rates 3 3 PJM transmission (3 ) (3 ) Other 9 (10 ) (1 ) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues 9 (10 ) (1 ) Increase in operating revenues $ 354 $ 69 $ 423 111 Table of Contents Rate changes and mix. The increase in electric revenues at PECO attributable to rate changes and mix resulted from increased residential sales, which are billed at higher average rates relative to other customer classes. In addition, rates were higher in 2005 for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were higher in 2005 relative to 2004. The increase in gas revenues was due to increases in rates through PAPUC approved changes to the purchased gas adjustment clause that became effective March 1, 2004, March 1, 2005, June 1, 2005, September 1, 2005 and December 1, 2005. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2005 was 12% higher than the average rate for 2004. Customer choice. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. For 2005 and 2004, 5% and 12%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2005 2004 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 44,500 101,500 Percentage of total retail customers 3 % 7 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 2,094 4,605 Percentage of total retail deliveries 5 % 12 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice was primarily related to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. This action followed the assignment of approximately 194,000 residential customers to competitive electric generation suppliers for a one year term beginning in December 2003, as required by the PAPUC and PECOs final electric restructuring order. In 2005, additional customers returned to PECO as their energy supplier primarily as a result of two alternative energy suppliers exiting the market. Volume. The increase in electric revenues was primarily as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Weather. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased sales of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were positively affected by favorable weather conditions at PECO in 2005 compared to 2004. In the PECO service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 21% and 2% higher, respectively, than the prior year. T&O / SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges see Purchased Power and Fuel 112 Table of Contents Expense below. The elimination of T&O revenues and inclusion of SECA revenues had a minimal impact on PECO as T&O revenues recognized in the past were not material and SECA revenues currently being recognized also are not material. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O / SECA rates. Other wholesale and miscellaneous revenues. Electric revenues increased $9 million primarily due to increased wholesale sales, and gas revenues decreased $10 million primarily due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The changes in PECOs purchased power and fuel expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Electric Gas Totalincrease(decrease) Prices $ 83 $ 90 $ 173 Customer choice 118 118 Weather 21 7 28 Volume 32 (15 ) 17 PJM transmission 11 11 SECA rates 9 9 Other (13 ) (13 ) Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 274 $ 69 $ 343 Prices. PECOs purchased power expense increased due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher gas prices. See Operating Revenues above. Customer choice. The increase in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to a significant number of residential customers returning to PECO as their energy provider in December 2004. Weather. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to serving the increased demand due to favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory. Volume. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was due primarily to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer across all customer classes. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to PECO, and PECO became obligated to pay SECA charges. During 2005 and 2004, PECO recorded SECA charges of $10 million and $1 million, respectively. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on T&O and SECA rates. Other. The decrease in gas fuel expense of $13 million was associated with decreased off system sales. 113 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for the 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Contractors (a) $ 8 Storm costs 7 Implementation of new customer information and billing system 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Severance related expenses (b) (14 ) Injuries and damages (6 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) The increase was primarily due to increases in vegetation management services compared to the prior year at PECO. (b) Consists of salary continuance severance costs, curtailment charges for pension and other post retirement benefits, and special termination benefit charges related to other postretirement benefits. The decrease reflects reduced severance related activity in 2005 compared to 2004. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Competitive transition charge amortization (a) $ 37 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) 13 Depreciation expense(c) 3 Other amortization expense (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 48 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system requires the accelerated amortization of PECOs current system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. (c) The increase in depreciation expense is primarily due to capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2005 compared to 2004 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Reduction in capital stock tax accrual in 2005 (a) $ (17 ) Reduction in real estate tax accrual in 2005 (b) (6 ) Taxes on utility revenues (c) 24 Other (6 ) Decrease in taxes other than income $ (5 ) (a) Represents a reduction in 2005 of prior year capital stock tax accruals as a result of a favorable decision from the Pennsylvania Board of Finance and Revenue. (b) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in March 2005 following settlements between PECO and various taxing authorities related to prior year tax assessments. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements for additional information. (c) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. 114 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net. The reduction in interest expense, net for 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to scheduled payments on long term debt owed to PETT. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in interest expense of the deconsolidated financing trusts of PECO due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Income Taxes. PECOs effective income tax rate was 32.2% for 2005 compared to 35.4% for 2004. The lower effective tax rate reflects a state income tax benefit recorded as a result of the favorable settlement of a 2000 Pennsylvania corporate net income tax audit. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 13,135 10,349 2,786 26.9 % Small commercial & industrial 7,263 6,728 535 8.0 % Large commercial & industrial 15,205 14,908 297 2.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 962 914 48 5.3 % Total full service 36,565 32,899 3,666 11.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 334 2,158 (1,824 ) (84.5 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,257 1,687 (430 ) (25.5 )% Large commercial & industrial 503 760 (257 ) (33.8 )% Total delivery only 2,094 4,605 (2,511 ) (54.5 )% Total retail deliveries 38,659 37,504 1,155 3.1 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. 115 Table of Contents Electric Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,705 $ 1,317 $ 388 29.5 % Small commercial & industrial 818 756 62 8.2 % Large commercial & industrial 1,173 1,113 60 5.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 84 80 4 5.0 % Total full service 3,780 3,266 514 15.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 25 164 (139 ) (84.8 )% Small commercial & industrial 63 86 (23 ) (26.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 13 20 (7 ) (35.0 )% Total delivery only 101 270 (169 ) (62.6 )% Total electric retail revenues 3,881 3,536 345 9.8 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 212 203 9 4.4 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,093 $ 3,739 $ 354 9.5 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales 59,751 59,949 (198 ) (0.3 )% Transportation 25,310 27,148 (1,838 ) (6.8 )% Total 85,061 87,097 (2,036 ) (2.3 )% Revenue 2005 2004 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 783 $ 702 $ 81 11.5 % Transportation 16 18 (2 ) (11.1 )% Resales and other 18 28 (10 ) (35.7 )% Total gas revenue $ 817 $ 748 $ 69 9.2 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. These capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations. When necessary, the Registrants obtain funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on their credit ratings and current business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively, that they currently utilize to support their commercial paper programs and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. 116 Table of Contents The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, each of Exelons, ComEds and PECOs working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd intends to refinance maturing long term debt during 2007. To manage cash flows as more fully described below, ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows will be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Cash flows from operations have been a reliable, steady source of cash flow, sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements. Taking into account the factors noted above, Exelon also obtains cash from non operating sources such as the proceeds from the debt issuance in 2005 to fund Exelons $2 billion pension contribution (see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating cash flows after 2006 could be negatively affected by changes in the rate regulatory environments of ComEd and PECO. ComEd is required, beginning in 2007, to purchase energy in the wholesale energy markets in order to meet the retail energy needs of ComEds customers because ComEd does not own any generation. If the price at which ComEd is allowed to sell energy is below ComEds cost to procure and deliver electricity, there may be potential material adverse consequences to ComEd and, possibly, Exelon. The ICC approved a cap and deferral program, proposed by ComEd, to ease the impact of the expected increase in rates on residential customers. The cap and deferral program, generally speaking, will limit the procurement costs that ComEd can pass through to its customers for a specified period of time and allow ComEd to collect any unrecovered procurement costs in later years. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on the procurement case. Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO will increase due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, beginning in 2007, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, ComEd or Ameren are not required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation is required to post collateral. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Generations collateral policy. 117 Table of Contents Additionally, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the IRS, to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets, to which the IRS has objected. As discussed in Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, this deferred tax obligation is significant. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations: 2006 2005 Variance Net income $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,213 4,102 (889 ) Income taxes 69 138 (69 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) 141 (791 ) 932 Pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments, net (180 ) (2,225 ) 2,045 Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,835 $2,147 $ 2,688 (a) Includes depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, pension and other postretirement benefits expense, other decommissioning related activities, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment charges and other non cash items. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. The increase in cash flows from operations during 2006 was primarily the result of $2 billion of discretionary contributions to Exelons pension plans during 2005, which was initially funded through a term loan agreement, as further described in the Cash Flows from Financing Activities section below. Of the total contribution, Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $844 million, $803 million, and $109 million, respectively. The Generation contribution was primarily funded by capital contributions from Exelon and included $2 million from internally generated funds. ComEds and PECOs contributions were funded by capital contributions from Exelon. Cash flows provided by operations for 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ 4,835 $ 2,147 Generation 2,550 972 ComEd 987 247 PECO 1,017 704 Excluding the March 2005 discretionary pension contributions discussed above, changes in the Registrants cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in their results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition to the items mentioned in Results of Operations and the discretionary pension contributions discussed above, significant operating cash flow impacts for Generation and ComEd for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Generation At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Generation had accounts receivable from ComEd under the PPA of $197 million, $242 million and $189 million, respectively. 118 Table of Contents At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Generation had accounts receivable from PECO under the PPA of $153 million, $151 million and $125 million, respectively. During 2006, Generation had net collections of counterparty collateral of $431 million compared to $187 million of net disbursements of counterparty collateral in 2005. The increase in cash inflows from 2005 was primarily due to changes in collateral requirements resulting from the extension of letters of credit and changes in market prices relative to positions with counterparties. During 2006 and 2005, Generation had net payments of approximately $220 million and $165 million, respectively, primarily due to increased use of financial instruments to economically hedge future sales of power and future purchases of fossil fuel. During 2005, Exelon received a $102 million Federal income tax refund for capital losses generated in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. In the first quarter of 2006, Exelon remitted a $98 million payment to the IRS in connection with the settlement of the IRSs challenge of the timing of the above described deduction. This payment included $6 million of interest which was recognized as interest expense in the first quarter of 2006. Exelon received approximately $92 million on December 13, 2006 related to this same deduction in connection with the filing of its 2005 tax return. ComEd At December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, ComEd had accrued payments to Generation under the PPA of $197 million, $242 million and $189 million, respectively. In 2005, ComEd settled $325 million of interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges for a loss of $15 million. This was recorded as a pre tax charge to net income because the underlying transaction for which these interest rate swaps were entered into was no longer probable of occurring. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ (2,762 ) $ (2,487 ) Generation (1,406 ) (1,294 ) ComEd (894 ) (479 ) PECO (332 ) (241 ) Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2006 and projected amounts for 2007 are as follows: 2006 2007 Generation (a) $ 1,109 $ 1,353 ComEd 911 1,055 PECO 345 355 Other (b) 53 38 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 2,418 $ 2,801 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations. 119 Table of Contents Projected capital expenditures and other investments by the Registrants are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Generations capital expenditures for 2006 reflected additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages) and nuclear fuel. Generation anticipates that its capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 50% of the projected 2007 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO are for continuing projects to maintain and improve the reliability of their transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amount is for capital additions to support new business and customer growth. ComEd and PECO are continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that their capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings and the issuance of debt or preferred securities. Other significant investing activities for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $92 million and $102 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generation During 2006, Generation made contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool totaling $13 million. During 2005, Generation received approximately $52 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to its retired units. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Specifically, subsidiaries of Generation closed on the acquisition of Reservoir Capital Groups 50% interest in Sithe for cash payments of $97 million and the sale of 100% of Sithe to Dynegy, for net cash proceeds of $103 million. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the sale of Sithe. ComEd As a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool, $308 million was returned to ComEd during 2005. PECO During 2006 and 2005, $8 million and $26 million, respectively, were returned to PECO as a result of its prior contributions to the Exelon intercompany money pool. 120 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ (1,989 ) $ (19 ) Generation (1,050 ) 93 ComEd (96 ) 240 PECO (693 ) (500 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2006 by registrant was as follows: Registrant Debt issued in 2006 Use of proceeds ComEd $325 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to supplement working capital previously used to refinance amounts that ComEd used to repay bonds and notes. ComEd $300 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd Additional $115 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay bonds at maturity. ComEd $345 million of First Mortgage 5.40% Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 Used to repay borrowings under ComEds revolving credit agreement which had been used to repay bonds and to refinance notes. PECO $300 million of First Mortgage Bonds 5.95% Series, due October 1, 2036 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement. The loan proceeds were used to fund discretionary contributions of $2 billion to Exelons pension plans, including contributions of $842 million, $803 million and $109 million by Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively. To facilitate the contributions by Generation, ComEd and PECO, Exelon contributed the corresponding amounts to the capital of each company. On April 1, 2005, Exelon entered into a $500 million term loan agreement that was subsequently fully borrowed to reduce the $2 billion term loan. During the second quarter of 2005, $200 million of the $500 million term loan, as well as the remaining $1.5 billion balance on the $2 billion term loan described above, were repaid with the net proceeds received from the issuance of the long term senior notes discussed below. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. On June 9, 2005, Exelon issued and sold $1.7 billion of senior debt securities pursuant to its senior debt indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, consisting of $400 million of 4.45% senior notes due 2010, $800 million of 4.90% senior notes due 2015 and $500 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2035. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to repay the $1.5 billion in remaining principal due on the $2 billion term loan agreement and $200 million of the $500 million term loan agreement referenced above. Exelon may redeem some or all of the notes at any time prior to maturity at a specified redemption price. The notes are unsecured and rank equally with the other senior unsecured indebtedness of Exelon. Additionally, Exelon settled interest rate swaps for a net payment of $38 million and paid approximately $12 million of fees in connection with the debt offering. In 2005, ComEd used funding received from $324 million of commercial paper to retire long term debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. 121 Table of Contents Generation and Peoples Calumet, LLC (Peoples Calumet), a subsidiary of Peoples Energy Corporation, were joint owners of Southeast Chicago Energy Project, LLC (SCEP), a 350 megawatt natural gas fired, peaking electric power plant located in Chicago, Illinois, which began operation in 2002. In 2002, Generation and Peoples Calumet owned 70% and 30%, respectively, of SCEP. Generation reflected the third party interest in this majority owned investment as a long term liability in its consolidated financial statements. Pursuant to the joint owners agreement, Generation was obligated to purchase Peoples Calumets 30% interest ratably over a 20 year period. On March 31, 2006, Generation entered into an agreement to accelerate the acquisition of Peoples Calumets interest in SCEP. This transaction closed on May 31, 2006. Under the agreement, Generation paid Peoples Calumet approximately $47 million for its remaining interest in SCEP. Generation financed this transaction using short term debt and available cash. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: 2006 2005 Exelon $ 1,071 $ 1,070 Generation 609 857 ComEd 498 PECO 506 473 Exelon paid dividends of $267 million, $268 million, $268 million and $268 million on March 10, 2006, June 12, 2006, September 11, 2006 and December 11, 2006, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2006, May 15, 2006, August 15, 2006 and November 15, 2006, respectively. On December 5, 2006, Exelons board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.44 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2007 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2007. See Dividends section of ITEM 5 for a further discussion of Exelons dividend policy. During 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. The decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend on a quarterly basis. In 2003, Congress passed and President Bush signed into law the Jobs and Growth Tax Reconciliation Act, legislation which lowered the tax rate on capital gains and corporate dividends to 15% for most investors and to 5% for lower income investors. Prior to enactment of this law, the maximum tax rate on dividend income was 38.6%. These provisions, which were originally scheduled to expire at the end of 2008, were extended to 2010 as part of the Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2005 passed in May 2006. Intercompany Money Pool. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool decreased $92 million and $191 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. During 2006, ComEd repaid $140 million that it had borrowed from the Exelon intercompany money pool. ComEds net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool increased $140 million during 2005. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd suspended participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool increased $45 million in 2006. Commercial Paper and Notes Payable. During 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO repaid $685 million, $311 million, $399 million and $125 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2005, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO issued $500 million, $311 million, $459 million and $220 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. 122 Table of Contents In 2006, Exelon terminated its $300 million term loan agreement. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Exelon $ 910 $ 835 ComEd 339 354 PECO 571 481 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 by registrant were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Generation $ 25 $ 843 ComEd 37 834 PECO 181 250 Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Exelon purchased treasury shares totaling $186 million and $362 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $184 million and $222 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. There was $60 million and $0 of excess tax benefits included as a cash inflow in other financing activities during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper by the Registrants. At December 31, 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. These revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at the Registrants and to issue letters of credit. During 2006, ComEd borrowed and fully repaid $240 million under its credit agreement. At December 31, 2006, the Registrants had the following aggregate bank commitments and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower AggregateBankCommitment (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon Corporate $ 1,000 $ 993 $ 150 Generation 5,000 4,920 ComEd 1,000 956 60 PECO 600 598 95 (a) Represents the total bank commitments to the borrower under credit agreements to which the borrower is a party. (b) Available capacity represents the unused bank commitments under the borrowers credit agreements net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit agreements. 123 Table of Contents Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 200 basis points. The average interest rates on commercial paper in 2006 for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO were approximately 5.02%, 4.99%, 5.06% and 4.97%, respectively. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and, in the case of Exelon and Generation, revenues from Sithe and interest on the debt of its project subsidiaries. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the year ended December 31, 2006: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.25 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2006, the Registrants were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. The ComEd credit agreement is secured by first mortgage bonds and imposes a restriction on future mortgage bond issuances by ComEd. It requires ComEd to maintain at least $1.75 billion of issuance availability (ignoring any interest coverage test) in the form of property additions or bondable bond retirements (previously issued, but now retired, bonds), most of which are required to be maintained in the form of bondable bond retirements. In general, a dollar of bonds can be issued under ComEds Mortgage on the basis of $1.50 of property additions, subject to an interest coverage test, or $1 of bondable bond retirements, which may or may not be subject to an interest coverage test. As of December 31, 2006, ComEd was in compliance with this requirement. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2006, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 40 % 25 % 33 % 25 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 16 9 43 Common equity 43 57 29 Members equity 75 Preferred securities 1 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 1 2 (a) As of December 31, 2006, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $1.1 billion receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table, but is excluded from the percentages in this footnote), consisted of 40% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 2% notes payable and 57% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. (b) Includes $3.6 billion, $1.0 billion and $2.6 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property and CTCs of ComEd and PECO or mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money 124 Table of Contents pool. Participation in the intercompany money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons treasurer. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon and UII, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, may participate as lenders. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2006 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2006: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2006Contributed (Borrowed) Generation $ 83 $ 234 $ 13 ComEd (a) 140 PECO 59 183 (45 ) BSC 234 134 (25 ) UII, LLC 5 Exelon 248 56 (a) As of January 10, 2006, ComEd suspended participation in the intercompany money pool. During the first quarter of 2006, ComEd repaid $140 million that it had borrowed from the intercompany money pool. Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2006: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa2 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Baa3 BB+ BBB Senior secured debt Baa2 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P3 A3 F2 Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F1 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (b) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On July 26, 2006, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) downgraded the long term and short term debt ratings of ComEd. The rating action concluded Moodys review for possible downgrade that commenced on December 15, 2005. Moodys attributed the downgrade to a difficult political and regulatory environment in Illinois, uncertainty about the outcome of the electricity supply auction and the expectation of a material regulatory deferral. On October 10, 2006, Moodys placed ComEds security ratings under review for possible downgrade resulting from perceived increasing political and regulatory risk in Illinois. 125 Table of Contents On July 31, 2006, Fitch Ratings downgraded the long term ratings of ComEd. On November 17, 2006, Fitch Ratings placed the ratings of ComEd under Ratings Watch negative due to on going uncertainty in Illinois resulting from recent legislative actions supporting a rate freeze. On October 5, 2006, Standard & Poors (S&P) downgraded the short term and long term security ratings of ComEd due to perceived political risk related to the rate freeze extension proposal. S&P downgraded ComEds senior unsecured debt to BB+, which is below investment grade. The ratings on Exelon, PECO and Generation were affirmed. The ratings for all Registrants were placed under Credit Watch with negative implications. None of the Registrants borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under the Registrants credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Shelf Registrations As of December 31, 2006, Exelon and PECO had current shelf registration statements for the sale of $300 million and $250 million, respectively, of securities that were effective with the SEC. ComEd, a well known seasoned issuer as described by the SEC, filed an automatic registration statement on May 10, 2006 and the shelf registration was effective immediately. The ability of Exelon, ComEd or PECO to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Restrictions The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. Under PUHCA, the SEC had financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations and Exelons financings. As a result of the repeal of PUHCA, 126 Table of Contents effective February 8, 2006, the SECs financing jurisdiction under PUHCA for ComEds and PECOs short term financings and Generations financings reverted to FERC and Exelons financings are no longer subject to regulatory approvals. In February 2006, ComEd and PECO received orders from FERC approving their requests for short term financing authority with FERC in the amounts of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, effective February 8, 2006 through December 31, 2007. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC with its market based rate authority in November 2000 and that became effective again with the repeal of PUHCA. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Under applicable law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. At December 31, 2006, Exelon had retained earnings of $3.4 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $1.8 billion, ComEds retained deficit of $(193) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1.6) billion partially offset by $1.4 billion of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends, and PECOs retained earnings of $584 million. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owns interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that own synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45K contains a provision under which the tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. On April 11, 2006, the IRS published the 2005 oil Reference Price and it did not exceed the beginning of the phase out range. Consequently, there was no phase out of tax credits for calendar year 2005. The following table (in dollars) provides the estimated phase out ranges for 2006 and 2007 based on the per barrel price of oil as of December 31, 2006. The table also contains the annual average New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. index (NYMEX) prices per barrel at December 31, 2006 based on actual prices for the year ended December 31, 2006 and the estimated average futures prices for the year ended December 31, 2007. 2006 2007 Beginning of Phase Out Range (a) $ 60 $ 62 End of Phase Out Range (a) 76 77 Annual Average NYMEX 66 64 (a) The estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges are based upon the actual 2005 phase out range. The actual 2005 phase out range was determined using the inflation adjustment factor published by the IRS in April 2006. The actual 2005 phase out range was increased by 2% per year (Exelons estimate of inflation) to arrive at the estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges. Exelon and the operators of the synthetic fuel producing facilities in which Exelon has interests idled the facilities in May 2006. The decision to suspend synthetic fuel production was primarily driven by the level and volatility of oil prices. In addition, the proposed Federal legislation that would have provided certainty that tax credits would exist for 2006 production was not included in the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005. Due to the reduction in oil prices during the third quarter of 2006, the operators resumed production at their synthetic fuel producing facilities in September 2006 127 Table of Contents and produced at full capacity through the remainder of 2006. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon has estimated the 2006 phase out to be 38%, which has reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $164 million to $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, Exelon has estimated the 2007 phase out of tax credits to be 18%. Exelon anticipates generating approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments, of which $80 million is expected in total for 2007 and 2008, assuming an 18% phase out of tax credits. Theses estimates may change significantly due to the volatility of oil prices. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges are based upon the actual 2005 phase out range. The actual 2005 phase out range was determined using the inflation adjustment factor published by the IRS in April 2006. The actual 2005 phase out range was increased by 2% each year (Exelons estimate of inflation) to arrive at the estimated 2006 and 2007 phase out ranges. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2012 and beyond 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 9,126 $ 246 $ 922 $ 2,427 $ 5,531 Long term debt to financing trusts 3,596 581 1,664 806 545 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 4,976 486 888 757 2,845 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,318 225 285 98 710 Capital leases 44 2 4 4 34 Operating leases 716 58 110 93 455 Purchase power obligations (b) 7,802 1,967 1,492 1,134 3,209 Fuel purchase agreements 5,022 1,047 1,463 1,169 1,343 Other purchase obligations (b)(c) 642 292 140 95 115 Chicago agreement (d) 36 6 12 12 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 950 950 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 32 32 Total contractual obligations $ 34,260 $ 4,942 $ 6,980 $ 6,595 $ 15,743 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2006. (b) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2006. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are contingent on plant availability. Does not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (c) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (d) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. 128 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment Due within Due 2012 and beyond (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 1,749 $ 10 $ 19 $ 700 $ 1,020 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 786 96 190 138 362 Capital leases 44 2 4 4 34 Operating leases 503 34 61 53 355 Purchase power obligations (b) 7,802 1,967 1,492 1,134 3,209 Fuel purchase agreements 4,516 830 1,317 1,104 1,265 Other purchase commitments (c) 277 165 50 38 24 Pension ERISA minimum funding requirement 24 24 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 950 950 Total contractual obligations $ 16,651 $ 3,128 $ 3,133 $ 3,171 $ 7,219 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2006. (b) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2006. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are contingent on plant availability. (c) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2012 and beyond Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 3,597 $ 147 $ 434 $ 560 $ 2,456 Long term debt to financing trusts 1,009 308 340 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,970 192 346 326 1,106 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 655 57 64 52 482 Operating leases 143 19 38 30 56 Other purchase commitments (b) 38 27 7 4 Chicago agreement (c) 36 6 12 12 6 Total contractual obligations $ 7,448 $ 756 $ 1,241 $ 984 $ 4,467 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. Other purchase commitments do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds supplier forward contracts. (c) On February 20, 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. 129 Table of Contents PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2012 and beyond (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Long term debt $ 1,471 $ $ 450 $ 267 $ 754 Long term debt to financing trusts 2,588 273 1,325 806 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 851 70 114 105 562 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 663 168 221 46 228 Operating leases 5 1 2 1 1 Fuel purchase agreements (b) 506 217 146 65 78 Other purchase commitments (c) 209 20 51 47 91 Total contractual obligations $ 6,293 $ 749 $ 2,309 $ 1,337 $ 1,898 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2006 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (c) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. For additional information about: commercial paper, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments and fuel purchase agreements, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the contribution required to Exelons pension plans to satisfy ERISA minimum funding requirements, see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the spent nuclear fuel and nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $14 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2006 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be 130 Table of Contents available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permitted ComEd through December 31, 2006, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. At December 31, 2006, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets related to its nuclear fueled generating facilities was approximately $3.5 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Following the completion of decommissioning activities, any excess nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to the former ComEd and PECO nuclear power plants will be required to be refunded to ComEd or PECO, as appropriate. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held approximately $6.4 billion of investments in trust funds, including unrealized gains at December 31, 2006. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of Exelons commercial commitments as of December 31, 2006. Refund Claims ComEd and PECO have several pending tax refund claims seeking acceleration of certain tax deductions and additional tax credits. ComEd and PECO are unable to estimate the ultimate outcome of these refund claims and will account for any amounts received in the period the matters are settled with the IRS and state taxing authorities. While Generation currently has state reviews by governmental agencies pending, they are not expected to have a significant impact on the financial condition or result of operations of Generation. ComEd and PECO have entered into several agreements with a tax consultant related to the filing of refund claims with the IRS. The fees for these agreements are contingent upon a successful outcome of the claims and are based upon a percentage of the refunds recovered from the IRS, if any. The ultimate net cash impacts to ComEd and PECO related to these agreements will either be positive or neutral depending upon the outcome of the refund claim with the IRS. These potential tax benefits and associated fees could be material to the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. If a settlement is reached, a portion of ComEds tax benefits, including any associated interest for periods prior to the PECO/Unicom Merger, would be recorded as a reduction of goodwill under the provisions of EITF Issue 93 7, Uncertainties Related to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination (EITF 93 7). Exelon cannot predict the timing of the final resolution of these refund claims. In 2006, the Joint Committee on Taxation (Joint Committee) completed its review and granted approval for PECOs income tax refund claims for investment tax credits. A majority of the investment tax credits claimed in the refund related to PECOs formerly owned generation property. The asset transfer agreement between PECO and Generation provides that PECO retains all current tax and interest benefits associated with the refund claims. Thus, as a result of the agreement, PECO recorded the current tax and interest benefits and Generation recorded the remaining unamortized investment tax credits and the related future deferred tax effects. As a result, the investment tax credit refund and associated interest of $19 million (after tax) have been recorded as a credit in Exelons and PECOs Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2006. Exelon and Generation recorded unamortized investment tax credits and related tax impacts of $10 million (after tax) as a charge to their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The unamortized investment tax credit recorded at Exelon, PECO and Generation will be amortized over the remaining depreciable book lives of the transmission, distribution and generation property using the deferral method pursuant to APB No. 2, Accounting for the Investment Credit and APB No. 4, Accounting for the Investment Credit. In addition, as a result 131 Table of Contents of the approval of the refund claim, Exelon and PECO recorded a consulting expense of $3 million (after tax) in 2006. The net after tax result of this settlement and consulting fees was $6 million, $16 million and $(10) million for Exelon, PECO and Generation, respectively. During 2006, the IRS indicated to PECO that it agreed with a substantial portion of a research and development refund claim. This refund claim was subject to the approval of the Joint Committee. In 2006, the Joint Committee completed its review and granted approval of the research and development claim. A majority of the refund claim also related to PECOs formerly owned generation property. Consistent with the investment tax credit refund claims, pursuant to the asset transfer agreement between PECO and Generation, PECO recorded the current tax and interest benefits and Generation recorded the future deferred tax effects. As a result, a research and development credit and the associated interest refund of $20 million (after tax) have been recorded as a credit in Exelons and PECOs Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2006. Exelon and Generation recorded the future deferred tax impact of $11 million as a charge to their Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, based on the IRS indication of its agreement with a portion of the refund claim, PECO recorded an estimated tax consulting contingent fee of $2 million (after tax) during 2006. The net after tax result of this settlement and consulting fees was $7 million, $18 million, and $(11) million for Exelon, PECO, and Generation respectively. Variable Interest Entities Sithe. As of December 31, 2004, Generation was a 50% owner of Sithe. In accordance with FIN 46 R, Generation consolidated Sithe within its financial statements as of March 31, 2004. The determination that Sithe qualified as a variable interest entity and that Generation was the primary beneficiary under FIN 46 R required analysis of the economic benefits accruing to all parties pursuant to their ownership interests supplemented by managements judgment. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the sale of Generations entire interest in Sithe that was completed on January 31, 2005. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. During June 2003, PECO issued $103 million of subordinated debentures to PECO Trust IV in connection with the issuance by PECO Trust IV of $100 million of preferred securities. Effective July 1, 2003, PECO Trust IV was deconsolidated from the financial statements of PECO in conjunction with FIN 46. The $103 million of subordinated debentures issued by PECO to PECO Trust IV was recorded as long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Effective December 31, 2003, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding, LLC, ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, PECO Trust III and PETT were deconsolidated from the financial statements of Exelon in conjunction with the adoption of FIN 46 R. Amounts of $1.0 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the American Nuclear Insurers (ANI) Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, 132 Table of Contents Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it can sell or finance with limited recourse an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable through November 2010. At December 31, 2006, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $208 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, (SFAS No. 140), and a $17 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable which was accounted for as a long term note payable. At December 31, 2005, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $195 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, and a $30 million interest in special agreement accounts receivable, which was accounted for as a long term note payable. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for these receivables. The agreement requires PECO to maintain the $225 million interest, which, if not met, requires cash, which would otherwise be received by PECO under this program, to be held in escrow until the requirement is met. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, PECO met this requirement and was not required to make any cash deposits. Beginning in 2007, this agreement will be subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, amendment of FASB Statement No. 140, which is not expected to have a material impact to PECO. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 133 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Corporation The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of corporate planning, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation is primarily exposed to commodity price risk with ComEd having modest exposure due to the need to purchase ancillary services. Exelon and Generation In 2005, Exelon and Generation entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. One of the counterparties has security interests in these derivatives. Including the related mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities reduced Exelons net income by $24 million and increased Exelons net income by $81 million and $70 million during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Exelon anticipates that it will continue to record income or losses related to the mark to market gains or losses on its derivative instruments and changes to the tax credits earned by Exelon during the period of production due to the volatility of oil prices. Net income or net losses from interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities are reflected in Exelons Consolidated Statements of Operations within income taxes, operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates and other, net. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to consolidated Financial Statements for further information in regards to synthetic fuel activity. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and they are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case those changes are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. 134 Table of Contents Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being hedged is approximately three years. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 2007 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. A portion of Generations hedge may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a ten percent reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity would be a decrease of less than $50 million in net income. This sensitivity assumes that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2006 resulted in a gain of $14 million (before income taxes), which represented a net unrealized mark to market gain of $10 million and realized gain of $4 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $120,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for year ended December 31, 2006 of $5,165 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officer (CCRO). 135 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2006. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2005 (a) $ (145 ) Total change in fair value during 2005 of contracts recorded in earnings 108 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (105 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 583 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (879 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (102 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2005 (a) (540 ) Total change in fair value during 2006 of contracts recorded in earnings 41 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 66 Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 146 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI 789 Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (3 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets at December 31, 2006 $ 499 (a) Includes a $39 million liability related to Sithe and the related mark to market expense which were reclassified to discontinued operations. The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2006 and 2005: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Current assets $ 1,408 $ 916 Noncurrent assets 171 286 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,579 1,202 Current liabilities (1,003 ) (1,282 ) Noncurrent liabilities (77 ) (460 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (1,080 ) (1,742 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 499 $ (540 ) The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2006 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 136 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, the table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within Total Fair Value (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by other external sources 345 59 14 1 419 Total $ 341 $ 59 $ 14 $ 1 $ $ $ 415 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ (122 ) $ 25 $ (1 ) $ $ $ $ (98 ) Prices provided by other external sources 232 1 233 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (50 ) (1 ) (51 ) Total $ 60 $ 24 $ $ $ $ $ 84 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations and Hedging Activities Interest Rate andOtherHedges Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2005 $ (137 ) $ (9 ) $ (146 ) Changes in fair value (533 ) 5 (528 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income 356 356 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2005 (314 ) (4 ) (318 ) Changes in fair value 476 1 477 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 88 88 Accumulated OCI derivative gain (loss) at December 31, 2006 $ 250 $ (3 ) $ 247 137 Table of Contents ComEd ComEd has derivatives related to one wholesale contract and certain other contracts to manage the market price exposures to several wholesale contracts that extend into 2007, which is beyond the expiration of ComEds PPA with Generation. Additionally, the supplier forward contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction (see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. As of December 31, 2006, the fair value of the derivative wholesale contract of $5 million was recorded on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet, which is classified as a current liability. The financial derivative used to manage the market price exposure to several wholesale contracts is designated and effective as a cash flow hedge, as defined in SFAS No. 133. As such, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. As of December 31, 2006, the fair value of this contract of $6 million was recorded on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet as a current liability. ComEd has exposure to commodity price risk in relation to ancillary services that are purchased from PJM. Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation Generations PPA with ComEd expired at the end of 2006. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren auctions. As a result of the expiration of the PPA and the results of the auctions, beginning in 2007, Generation will sell more electricity through bilateral agreements with other new and existing counterparties. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment; therefore, Generations credit risk profile is anticipated to change based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. Additionally, due to the possibility of rate freeze legislation in Illinois affecting both ComEd and Ameren, Generation may be subject to the risk of default and, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by ComEd or Ameren, a risk that the bankruptcy may result in rejection of contracts for the purchase of electricity. A default by ComEd or Ameren on contracts for purchase of electricity, or a rejection of those contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding, could result in a disruption in the wholesale power markets. For additional information on the Illinois auction, the proposed legislation and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation manages counterparty credit risk through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases, requiring deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. 138 Table of Contents The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates or exposure through RTOs and Independent System Operators (ISOs) which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2006 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,005 $ 268 $ 737 1 $ 95 Non investment grade 53 9 44 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 10 1 9 Internally rated non investment grade 4 3 1 Total $ 1,072 $ 281 $ 791 1 $ 95 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Rating as of December 31, 2005 (a) TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 472 $ 53 $ 419 2 $ 147 Non investment grade 60 11 49 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 41 41 Internally rated non investment grade 38 38 Total $ 611 $ 64 $ 547 2 $ 147 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2006 (a) Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 944 $ 61 $ $ 1,005 Non investment grade 40 13 53 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 10 10 Internally rated non investment grade 3 1 4 Total $ 997 $ 75 $ $ 1,072 (a) This table does not include accounts receivable exposure. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable 139 Table of Contents grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO will increase due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, beginning in 2007, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, neither ComEd nor Ameren is required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation may be required to post collateral. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on contracted clearing prices related to the ComEd and Ameren auctions. As of December 31, 2006, Generation had $26 million of collateral deposit payments being held by counterparties and Generation was holding $273 million of collateral deposits received from counterparties. RTOs and ISOs. Generation participates in the following established, real time energy markets that are administered by: PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generations financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience and third party studies, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd is currently unable to predict the impact of the reverse auction power prices, effective in January 2007, on its provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. PECO has experienced an increase in its provision for uncollectible accounts in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of higher average 140 Table of Contents accounts receivable balances in 2006 resulting from increased revenues, changes in PAPUC approved regulations related to customer payment terms and an increase in the number of low income customers participating in customer assistance programs, which allow for the forgiveness of certain receivables. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 3.5% of its electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 5.9% of its retail electric and gas revenues. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets included a $529 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2006. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $963 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Variable Rate Debt. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2006, the Registrants did not have any material fair value or cash flow interest rate hedges outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in a $4 million, $2 million, $1 million and $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs, respectively, pre tax earnings. Fair Value Hedges. During 2006, ComEd settled its interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million for a cash payment of approximately $1 million. Cash Flow Hedges. In 2005, ComEd settled its interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $325 million due to the underlying transaction for which these interest rate swaps were entered into was no longer probable of occurring. As a result, Exelon and ComEd recognized a pre tax loss of $15 million which was included in other, net within the Consolidated Statements of Operations and within Cash Flows From Investing Activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In addition, during 2005, Exelon settled interest rate swaps in the aggregate notional amount of $1.5 billion and recorded pre tax losses of $39 million which will be recorded as additional interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2006, Generations 141 Table of Contents decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $460 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. Exelon and Generation maintain trust assets associated with defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 142 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility that Generation currently utilizes to support is commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 143 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 144 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where ComEd no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, ComEd has access to a revolving credit facility that ComEd currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 145 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 146 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 147 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 148 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility that Generation currently utilizes to support is commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 143 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 144 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where ComEd no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, ComEd has access to a revolving credit facility that ComEd currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 145 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 146 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 147 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 148 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where ComEd no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, ComEd has access to a revolving credit facility that ComEd currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 145 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 146 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 147 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 148 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2005 compared to 2004 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 147 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 148 Table of Contents 
 
