ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Generation and Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of nuclear decommissioning. Dresden Unit 1, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Zion (Zion Station), a two unit nuclear generation station, have ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All of Peach Bottom Unit 1s SNF has been moved off site. SNF at Zion Station is currently stored in on site storage pools. Generations liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Zion Station was $795 million at December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, nuclear decommissioning trust funds set aside to pay for these obligations were $1.2 billion. Zion Station Decommissioning. On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement with Energy Solutions, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) for decommissioning of Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and which ceased operation in 1998. If the various closing conditions under the Asset Sale Agreement are satisfied and the transaction is completed, Generation will transfer to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in nuclear decommissioning trusts (approximately $870 million). In consideration for Generations transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions will assume decommissioning and other liabilities associated with Zion Station. ZionSolutions will take possession and control of the land associated with Zion Station pursuant to a Lease Agreement with Generation, to be executed at the closing. Under the Lease Agreement, ZionSolutions will commit to complete the required decommissioning work according to an established schedule and will construct a dry cask storage facility on the land for the spent nuclear fuel currently held in spent fuel pools at Zion Station. Rent payable under the Lease Agreement will be $1.00 per year, although the Lease Agreement requires ZionSolutions to pay property taxes associated with Zion Station and penalty rents may accrue if there are unexcused delays in the progress of decommissioning work at Zion Station or the construction of the dry cask spent nuclear fuel storage facility. To reduce any potential risk of default by EnergySolutions or ZionSolutions, EnergySolutions is required to provide a $200 million letter of credit to be used to fund decommissioning costs in case of a shortfall of decommissioning funds following specified failures of performance. EnergySolutions has also provided a performance guarantee and will enter into other agreements that will provide rights and remedies for Generation in the case of other 10 Table of Contents specified events of default, including a special purpose easement for disposal capacity at the EnergySolutions site in Clive, Utah, for all low level waste volume of Zion Station. However, if the resources of EnergySolutions Inc. and its subsidiaries are inadequate to complete required decommissioning work, Generation may be required to complete the work at its own expense. If the transaction is completed in 2008, Generation expects the required decommissioning work and the construction of the dry cask spent fuel storage facility would be completed by 2018. ZionSolutions and Generation will also enter into a Put Option Agreement pursuant to which ZionSolutions will have the option to transfer the remaining Zion Station assets and any associated liabilities back to Generation upon completion of all required decommissioning and other work at Zion Station. The purchase price payable under the Put Option Agreement is $1.00 plus the assumption of associated liabilities. Completion of the transactions contemplated by the Asset Sale Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of a number of closing conditions, including the accuracy of the parties representations and warranties, the performance of covenants, the receipt of approval from the NRC, and the receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Generation does not expect that conditions to the closing of the transaction will be satisfied before the second half of 2008. Fossil and Hydroelectric Facilities Generation operates various fossil and hydroelectric facilities and maintains ownership interests in several other facilities such as LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2007 and 2006, electric supply (in GWhs) generated from owned fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities was 6% and 7%, respectively, of Generations total electric supply, which also includes nuclear generation and electric supply purchased for resale. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generations electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by FERC. The Muddy Run and Conowingo facilities have licenses that expire in August 2014. Generation is in the process of performing pre application analyses and anticipates filing a Notice of Intent to renew the licenses in 2009 pursuant to FERC regulations. For those plants located within the control areas administered by the PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) or the New England control area administered by ISO New England Inc. (ISO NE), notice is required to be provided to PJM or ISO NE, as applicable, before a plant can be retired. Insurance. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. 11 Table of Contents Long Term Contracts In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the following long term contracts in effect as of December 31, 2007: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MWs) Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2013 1,108 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP (a) Franklin, Georgia 2030 942 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Green Country Energy, LLC Jenks, Oklahoma 2022 795 Elwood Energy, LLC Elwood, Illinois 2012 775 Lincoln Generating Facility, LLC Manhattan, Illinois 2011 664 Reliant Energy Aurora, LP Aurora, Illinois 2008 600 Wolf Hollow 1, LP Granbury, Texas 2023 350 Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC Dixon, Illinois 2008 344 Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc. East Dundee, Illinois 2009 330 DTE Energy Trading, Inc. Crete, Illinois 2008 300 Others (b) Various 2011 to 2028 486 Total 7,524 (a) Commencing June 1, 2010 and lasting for 20 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 942 MWs of capacity, energy, and ancillary services supplied from its existing long term contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP through a tolling agreement with Georgia Power, a subsidiary of Southern Company. (b) Includes long term capacity contracts with nine counterparties. Federal Power Act The Federal Power Act gives FERC exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, all public utilities subject to FERCs jurisdiction are required to file rate schedules with FERC with respect to wholesale sales and transmission of electricity. Open Access Transmission tariffs established under FERC regulation give Generation transmission access that enables Generation to participate in competitive wholesale markets. Market Based Rate Matters Generation, ComEd and PECO are public utilities for purposes of the Federal Power Act and are required to obtain FERCs acceptance of rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. Currently, Generation, ComEd and PECO have authority to sell power at market based rates. As is customary with market based rate schedules, FERC has reserved the right to suspend market based rate authority on a retroactive basis if it subsequently determines that Generation or any of its affiliates has violated the terms and conditions of its tariff or the Federal Power Act. FERC is also authorized to order refunds if it finds that the market based rates are not just and reasonable under the Federal Power Act. In 2004, FERC implemented market power tests to determine whether sellers should be entitled to market based rate authority. The effect was to require Generation, ComEd, and PECO to file with FERC a new analysis under the new tests. On July 5, 2005, FERC accepted the filing, thereby allowing Generation, ComEd and PECO to have continued authority to sell at market based rates. In the same order, however, FERC started a proceeding, the purpose of which was to require Generation to demonstrate its compliance with FERCs affiliate abuse and reciprocal dealing prong of the tests it had 12 Table of Contents instituted in 2004. On April 3, 2006, FERC accepted the compliance filing, and terminated the proceeding. On June 21, 2007, FERC issued a Final Rule on Market Based Rates for Wholesale Sales of Electric Energy, Capacity and Ancillary Services by Public Utilities, which updated and modified the tests that FERC had implemented in 2004. On December 14, 2007, FERC issued an order clarifying some provisions in the Final Rule. On January 14, 2008, Generation, ComEd and PECO filed an analysis using FERCs updated screening tests, as required by the Final Rule. The filing demonstrates that under those tests, one called the pivotal supplier test and the other the market share test, Generation, ComEd, and PECO are entitled to continue to sell at market based rates. FERC is not expected to act on the filing until later in 2008. The Registrants do not expect that the Final Rule will have a material effect on their results of operations in the short term. The longer term impact will depend on the future application by FERC of the Final Rule. For a number of years, regional transmission organizations (RTOs), such as PJM, have formed in a number of regions to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. The intended benefits of establishing these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market monitoring and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service across several transmission systems. See Transmission Services below for a further discussion. To date, PJM, the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO), ISO NE and Southwest Power Pool, have been approved as RTOs. Because of some states opposition to imposition of centralized energy and capacity markets, FERC is seeking to obtain some of the benefits of RTOs by means of making more effective rules governing open access transmission in regions that do not have RTOs or independent system operators. The Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Policy Act), which was signed into law on August 8, 2005, implements several significant changes intended to improve electric reliability, promote investment in the transmission infrastructure, streamline electric regulation, improve wholesale competition, address problems identified in the western energy crisis and Enron collapse, promote fuel diversity and cleaner fuel sources, and promote greater efficiency in electric generation, delivery and use. The Energy Policy Act, through amendment of the Federal Power Act, also transferred to FERC certain additional authority. FERC was granted new authority to review the acquisition or merger of companies owning generating facilities, along with the responsibility to address more explicitly cross subsidization issues in these situations. FERC was also authorized to impose civil penalties for violations of laws and regulations and to prohibit market manipulation activities. Additionally, FERC now has the authority to approve siting of electric transmission facilities located in national interest electric transmission corridors if states cannot or will not act in a timely manner to approve siting. The Energy Policy Act also authorized a self regulating electric reliability organization with FERC oversight to enforce reliability rules. On July 20, 2006, pursuant to the Federal Power Act, FERC certified the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) as the nations Electric Reliability Organization. As a result, users, owners and operators of the bulk power system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. PJM Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) FERC issued an order approving PJMs RPM to replace its current capacity market rules. The RPM provides for a forward capacity auction using a demand curve and locational deliverability zones 13 Table of Contents for capacity phased in over a several year period beginning on June 1, 2007. A number of parties have appealed the order, and those appeals have been consolidated and are pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Notwithstanding the petitions for judicial review, PJM implemented RPM in 2007 as FERCs orders were not stayed, and therefore remain in effect, pending appellate review, as applicable. PJMs RPM auctions took place in April 2007, July 2007, October 2007 and January 2008 and established prices for the period from June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2011. Subsequent auctions will take place 36 months ahead of the scheduled delivery year. The RPM is anticipated to have a favorable impact for owners of generation facilities, particularly for such facilities located in constrained zones. PJM is authorized to impose PJM RPM capacity penalties. As of December 31, 2007, Generation does not believe it has incurred any such penalties and, therefore, has not recorded a liability. Marginal Loss Dispatch and Settlement On June 1, 2007, PJM implemented marginal loss dispatch and settlement for its competitive wholesale electric market. Marginal loss dispatch recognizes the varying delivery costs of transmitting electricity from individual generator locations to the places where customers consume the energy. Prior to the implementation of marginal loss dispatch, PJM had used average losses in dispatch and in the calculation of locational marginal prices. Locational marginal prices in PJM now include the real time impact of transmission losses from individual sources to loads. PJM believes that the marginal loss approach is more efficient because the cost of energy that is lost in transmission lines is reduced compared with the former average loss method. As a whole, Exelon and Generation have experienced an increase in the cost of delivering energy from the generating plant locations to customer load zones due to the implementation of marginal loss dispatch and settlement. Illinois Settlement Agreement The legislatively mandated transition and retail electric rate freeze period in Illinois ended at the close of 2006. In view of the rate increases following the expiration of the rate freeze, various bills were proposed in the Illinois House of Representatives and Senate in 2007 in an attempt to address the higher electric bills in the State of Illinois. In addition to proposed legislation directed at ComEd, the significant components of the proposed legislation directed at Generation would have required the following: A tax of $70,000 for each megawatt of nameplate capacity on certain electric generating facilities located in Illinois including those owned by Generation. Establishment of a generation tax and a fund from the proceeds of the generation tax to be used to pay to ComEd and other Illinois utilities for rate refunds to customers and also to pay to ComEd and other Illinois utilities for differences between 2007 and 2006 rates prior to July 1, 2008. Require electric utilities, including ComEd, to remove themselves from participation in RTOs, including PJM, which would have had a significant impact on competition and open access in the Illinois retail market. In July 2007, following extensive discussions with legislative leaders in Illinois, Generation, ComEd, and other generators and utilities in Illinois reached an agreement (Settlement) with various representatives from the State of Illinois concluding discussions of measures to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois without rate freeze, generation tax or other legislation that Exelon believes would have been harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. Generation and ComEd committed to contributing approximately $800 million to rate relief programs over four years. Generation committed an aggregate of $747 million, with $435 million available to pay ComEd for rate relief programs for ComEd customers, $307.5 million available 14 Table of Contents for rate relief programs for customers of other Illinois utilities, and $4.5 million available for partially funding operations of the IPA. Legislation reflecting the Settlement (Settlement Legislation) was passed by the Illinois Legislature on July 26, 2007 and was signed into law on August 28, 2007 by the Governor of Illinois. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the components of the Settlement Legislation. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWhs for 2007 and estimated for 2008: Source of Electric Supply (a) 2007 2008 (Est.) Nuclear units 140,359 138,056 Purchases non trading portfolio 38,021 36,741 Fossil and hydroelectric units 11,270 14,487 Total supply 189,650 189,284 (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its generating plants. The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its obligations for sales to other utilities, including to ComEd and PECO, and some of Generations retail business requirements. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2010. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2011. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2011. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2010. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units. Generation obtains approximately 30% of its uranium enrichment services from European suppliers. There is an ongoing trade action by USEC, Inc. against European enrichment services suppliers alleging dumping in the United States. In January 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission determined that USEC, Inc. was materially injured or threatened with material injury by low enriched uranium exported by European suppliers. The U.S. Department of Commerce has assessed countervailing and anti dumping duties against the European suppliers. Both USEC, Inc. and the European suppliers have appealed these decisions. Generation is uncertain at this time as to the outcome of the pending appeals; however, as a result of these actions, Generation may incur higher costs for uranium enrichment services necessary for the production of nuclear fuel. Coal is procured for coal fired plants primarily through annual contracts, with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. Natural gas is procured for gas fired plants through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or natural gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. 15 Table of Contents Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding derivative financial instruments. Power Team Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity and through long term, intermediate term and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be made for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Generation has also purchased transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs. Power Team also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. The maximum length of time over which cash flows related to energy commodities are currently being economically hedged is approximately five years. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 2008 for its energy marketing portfolio. This hedge ratio represents the percentage of forecasted aggregate annual generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEd and PECO. A portion of Generations hedge may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk management group and Exelons Risk Management Committee (RMC) monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Power Team also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Power Teams efforts. At December 31, 2007, Generations long term commitments relating to the purchase and sale of energy, capacity and transmission rights from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power Only Purchasesfrom Non Affiliates Power OnlySales Transmission RightsPurchases (b) 2008 $ 335 $ 473 $ 3,371 $ 2 2009 291 38 1,486 2010 316 18 277 2011 324 48 27 2012 321 18 28 Thereafter 1,848 207 29 Total $ 3,435 $ 802 $ 5,218 $ 2 16 Table of Contents (a) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2007. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are conditional on plant availability. (b) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments in 2008 for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. Beginning in January 2007, ComEd began procuring all of its energy requirements for retail customers from market sources pursuant to the ICC approved procurement auction in 2006 or from the PJM spot market. Approximately one third of ComEds contracts that resulted from the 2006 auction will expire in May 2008, another one third will expire in May 2009, and the remaining contracts will expire in May 2010. Approximately 35% of the contracted supply from the 2006 auction will come from Generation. Suppliers, including Generation, were limited to winning no more than 35% in either the fixed price section or the hourly price section of the auction. The Settlement Legislation established a new competitive process for procurement to be managed by the IPA and overseen by the ICC in accordance with electricity supply procurement plans approved by the IPA. The new procurement process involving the IPA will not be fully established until later in 2008 and, in the interim, ComEd submitted to the ICC, and the ICC approved, a procurement plan for ComEd to secure its remaining requirements for power and other ancillary services for the period from June 2008 to May 2009. Beginning in 2008, ComEd, each June, will submit a five year forecast to the IPA and the IPA will develop a procurement plan for approval by the ICC to procure its remaining requirements for energy in periods subsequent to May 2009. Generation has a PPA with PECO under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with substantially all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources. Subsequent to 2010, PECO expects to procure all of its electricity from market sources, which could include Generation. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2008 are as follows: (in millions) Production plant $ 868 Nuclear fuel (a) 731 Total $ 1,599 (a) Includes Generations share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co owned Salem plant. ComEd ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is subject to regulation by the ICC as to rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEds operations. ComEd is also subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEds business. ComEds retail service territory has an area of approximately 11,300 square miles and an estimated population of eight million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of three million. ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers. 17 Table of Contents ComEds franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEds franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2008 to 2061. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration. ComEds kWh sales and load of electricity are generally higher during the summer periods and winter periods, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEds highest peak load occurred on August 1, 2006 and was 23,613 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on February 5, 2007 and was 16,207 MWs. Retail Electric Services Electric utility restructuring legislation was adopted in Illinois in December 1997 to permit competition by competitive electric generation suppliers for the supply of retail electricity. Transmission and distribution service was not impacted by the legislation and continues to remain regulated. The restructuring legislation and related regulatory orders allowed customers to choose a competitive electric generation supplier; required rate reductions and imposed freezes or caps on rates during a transition period following the adoption of the legislation; and allowed the collection of competitive transition charges (CTCs) from customers to permit Illinois utilities to recover a portion of the costs that might not otherwise be recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) during the transition period. ComEds transition and rate freeze period ended in January 2007. In anticipation of the end of the transition and rate freeze period, ComEd engaged in various regulatory proceedings to establish rates for the post 2006 period, as described below. In view of the rate increases that were anticipated following the expiration of the rate freeze, the Illinois Legislature considered proposed legislation to roll back and freeze ComEds rates for an additional period, to control the rate at which the rate increases were phased in or to impose a tax on the ownership or operation of electric generating facilities. In August 2007, Settlement Legislation was enacted in Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills following the expiration of the rate freeze. The Settlement Legislation required, among other things, rate relief contributions of approximately $1 billion to be made by certain Illinois electric utilities, their affiliates, and generators of electricity in Illinois over a four year period. ComEd committed to continue executing upon a $64 million rate relief package announced earlier in 2007. As a result of the end of ComEds transition period, new unbundled rates for service became effective in January 2007. As of December 31, 2007, three competitive electric generation suppliers have been granted approval by the ICC to serve residential customers in Illinois; however, none of the competitive electric generation suppliers is currently supplying electricity to any of ComEds residential customers. All of ComEds customers are eligible to choose a competitive electric generation supplier or may purchase electricity from ComEd at market based rates. At December 31, 2007, approximately 44,200 non residential customers, representing approximately 48% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEds obligation to provide full service electric service including generation service (which are referred to as provider of last resort (POLR) obligations) varies by customer size. ComEds obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kilowatts (kWs) continues for all customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to the utility after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. 18 Table of Contents ComEds obligations to many of its largest customers, with demands of 3 MWs or greater has previously been declared competitive. For customers with demands of 400 kWs and above, and 100 400 kWs, ComEd has full service obligations through May 2008 and May 2010, respectively. Delivery Service Rate Cases. In August 2005, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC to comprehensively review its tariff and to adjust ComEds rates for delivering electricity effective January 2007 (2005 Rate Case). In July 2006, the ICC issued its order in the 2005 Rate Case, approving a delivery services revenue increase of approximately $8 million of the $317 million proposed revenue increase requested by ComEd. The ICC subsequently granted, in part, requests for rehearing of ComEd and various other parties, and in December 2006, issued an order on rehearing that increased the amount previously approved by approximately $74 million for a total rate increase of $83 million. ComEd and various other parties have appealed the rate order to the courts, but the appeal is not yet resolved. In October 2007, ComEd filed a request with the ICC seeking approval to increase its delivery service rates to reflect its continued investment in delivery service assets since rates were last determined (2007 Rate Case). ICC proceedings relating to the proposed delivery service rates will occur over a period of up to eleven months. If approved by the ICC, the total proposed increase of approximately $360 million in the net annual revenue requirement, which was based on a 2006 test year with estimated capital additions through the third quarter of 2008, would increase an average residential customers total bill by approximately 7.7%. Illinois Rate Design. In October 2007, the ICC approved implementation of a revised rate design that changed the allocation of rates among customer groups effective December 1, 2007, but did not change the overall level of rates. The new rate design took effect December 1, 2007. Procurement Related Proceedings. Beginning January 1, 2007, following the expiration of a PPA with Generation, ComEd began procuring electricity under supplier forward contracts with various suppliers, including Generation. The supplier forward contracts resulted from an ICC approved reverse auction competitive bidding process, which permitted recovery by ComEd of its electricity procurement costs from retail customers with no markup. A procurement auction for ComEds entire load occurred in September 2006 and deliveries resulting from the auction began in January 2007. The energy price that resulted from the procurement auction is fixed until June 2008, at which time, approximately one third of supply contracts entered as part of the procurement auction are scheduled to expire. The Settlement Legislation established a new competitive process which must be used by Illinois utilities for the procurement of electricity and also established the IPA. With the exception of the delivery period beginning in June 2008, the IPA will participate in the design of electricity supply portfolios for ComEd and will administer the new competitive process for ComEd to procure the electricity supply resources and renewable energy sources identified in its supply portfolio plans, all under the oversight of the ICC. In October 2007, ComEd filed a petition with the ICC seeking approval of an initial procurement plan to secure energy for retail electric customers for the period June 2008 through May 2009. On December 11, 2007, an administrative law judge (ALJ) issued a proposed order on the procurement plan, approving virtually every aspect of the proposal, with the exception of recommending an increase in the amount of power ComEd should procure through block purchases in July and August for peak periods (Proposed Order). On December 19, 2007, the ICC approved the Proposed Order. The procurement plan and the spot market purchases discussed below will be used to effectively replace the auction contracts scheduled to expire on May 31, 2008 to meet the power and other ancillary services requirements of ComEds customers for the period June 2008 through May 2009. In May 2009, another one third of existing auction contracts will expire and any additional electricity required to meet the needs of ComEds customers will be acquired through the new competitive process administered by the IPA. 19 Table of Contents Under the Settlement Legislation, electric utilities are required to use cost effective energy efficiency resources to meet incremental annual program energy savings goals and must implement cost effective demand response measures to reduce peak demand each year for eligible retail customers. In November 2007, pursuant to these requirements, ComEd filed its initial Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Plan with the ICC and expects an ICC order to be issued on the filing in the first quarter of 2008. This plan begins in June 2008, and is designed to meet the Settlement Legislations energy efficiency and demand response goals for an initial three year period, including reductions in delivered energy and in the peak demand of ComEds customers. In addition to the procurement plan, ComEd will purchase energy on the spot market to meet the needs of its customers. To fulfill another requirement of the settlement that gave rise to the Settlement Legislation, and in advance of the creation of the IPA, ComEd and Generation entered into a five year financial swap contract that became effective in August 2007. This contract effectively hedges a significant portion of ComEds spot market purchases. The effect of the swap is to cause ComEd to pay fixed prices and Generation to pay market prices for a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements. The financial swap contract is designed to dovetail with ComEds remaining supplier forward contracts for energy, increasing in volume as those contracts expire. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Other. Illinois law provides that an electric utility, such as ComEd, will be liable for actual damages suffered by customers in the event of a continuous electricity outage of four hours or more affecting 30,000 or more customers and provides for reimbursement of governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with any such outage. Recovery of consequential damages is barred and the affected utility may seek relief from these provisions from the ICC when the utility can show that the cause of the outage was unpreventable due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering or third party causes. During the years 2007, 2006 and 2005, ComEd does not believe that it had any outages that triggered the reimbursement requirement. Construction Budget ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities. ComEds most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2008 are $1,003 million. PECO PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to residential, commercial and industrial customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to residential, commercial and industrial customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECOs operations. PECO is also subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECOs business. PECOs combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 3.8 million. PECO provides electric delivery service in an area of approximately 2,000 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.7 million, including 1.5 million in the City of Philadelphia. Natural gas service is supplied in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.3 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 480,000 customers. 20 Table of Contents PECO has the necessary authorizations to furnish regulated electric and natural gas service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECOs authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and or grandfathered rights, which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECOs natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility but PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat. PECOs kWh sales and load of electricity are generally higher during the summer periods and winter periods, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECOs highest peak load occurred on August 3, 2006 and was 8,932 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MWs. PECOs gas sales are generally higher during the winter periods when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECOs highest daily gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 million cubic feet (mmcf). Retail Electric Services Electric utility restructuring legislation was adopted in Pennsylvania in December 1996. Pennsylvania permits competition by competitive electric generation suppliers for the supply of retail electricity while transmission and distribution service remains regulated. The legislation and related regulatory orders allowed customers to choose a competitive electric generation supplier; required rate reductions and imposed freezes or caps on rates during a transition period following the adoption of the legislation; and allowed the collection of CTCs from customers to recover a portion of the costs that might not otherwise be recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) during the transition period. The PECO transition period ends on December 31, 2010. Under the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act), all of PECOs retail electric customers have the right to choose their generation suppliers. At December 31, 2007, less than 1% of each of PECOs residential and large commercial and industrial loads and 8% of its small commercial and industrial load were purchasing generation service from competitive electric generation suppliers. Customers who purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge and CTC to PECO. In addition to retail competition for generation services, PECOs 1998 settlement of its restructuring case (1998 restructuring settlement) mandated by the Competition Act established caps on generation, transmission and distribution rates. The 1998 restructuring settlement also authorized PECO to recover $5.3 billion of stranded costs and to securitize up to $4.0 billion of its stranded cost recovery, which was subsequently increased to $5.0 billion. Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, PECOs electric distribution and transmission rates were capped through June 30, 2005 at the level in effect on December 31, 1996. Generation rates, consisting of the charge for stranded cost recovery and a shopping credit or capacity and energy charge, are capped through December 31, 2010. In 2007, the generation rate cap increased to $0.0801 per kWh, where it will remain through 2010. The rate caps are subject to limited exceptions, including significant increases in Federal or state taxes or other significant changes in law or regulations that would not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return. Under the settlement agreement entered into by PECO in 2000 relating to the PAPUCs approval of the merger between PECO, Unicom Corporation (Unicom), the former parent company of ComEd, and Exelon (PECO/Unicom Merger), PECO agreed to $200 million in aggregate rate reductions for all customers over the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005 and extended the rate cap on distribution and transmission rates through December 31, 2006. PECOs transmission and distribution rates continue in effect until PECO 21 Table of Contents files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. There are no current proceedings to do so. As a mechanism for utilities to recover allowed stranded costs, the Competition Act provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customers bills. CTCs are assessed to and collected from all retail customers who have been assigned stranded cost responsibility and access the utilitys transmission and distribution systems. As the transition charges are based on access to the utilitys transmission and distribution system, they are assessed regardless of whether the customer purchases electricity from the utility or a competitive electric generation supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that the utilitys right to collect CTCs is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs were awarded, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. As mentioned above, PECO has been authorized by the PAPUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. At December 31, 2007, the unamortized balance of PECOs stranded costs, or CTC regulatory asset, was approximately $2.4 billion. The following table shows PECOs allowed recovery of stranded costs, and amortization of the associated regulatory asset, for the years 2008 through 2010 as authorized by the PAPUC based on the level of transition charges established in the settlement of PECOs restructuring case and the projected annual retail sales in PECOs service territory. Recovery of CTCs for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. To the extent the actual recoveries of CTCs in any one year differ from the authorized amount set forth below, an annual reconciliation adjustment to the CTC rates is made to increase or decrease the subsequent years collections accordingly, except during 2010, in which the reconciling adjustments are made quarterly or monthly as needed. Year (in millions) EstimatedCTC Revenue Estimated StrandedCost Amortization 2008 $ 917 $ 697 2009 924 783 2010 932 883 PECO has a PPA with Generation under which PECO obtains substantially all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues earned from customers as specified by PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. Subsequent to 2010, PECO expects to procure all of its supply from market sources, which could include Generation. Default Service Regulations. Under Pennsylvania law, PECO is required to provide generation services to customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to the utility after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. These requirements are referred to as default service regulations. In May 2007, the PAPUC adopted final default service regulations, an accompanying policy statement, and a price mitigation policy statement. The final default service regulations became effective on September 15, 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Pennsylvania Regulatory Matters. In 2007, the Pennsylvania Governor announced an Energy Independence Strategy that addresses the impact of electricity price increases in Pennsylvania and other initiatives on the Pennsylvania Governors environmental agenda. The Energy Independence Strategy includes measures that would, among other things, phase in increased electricity rates following the expiration of rate caps, require the installation and use of advanced metering technology and establish an Energy Independence Fund to spur the development of a biofuels industry in 22 Table of Contents Pennsylvania and promote the advancement of energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. As of February 7, 2008, no portion of the Governors environmental agenda has been enacted into law. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act. In November 2004, Pennsylvania adopted Act 213, the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act of 2004 (AEPS Act). The AEPS Act mandates that beginning in 2007, or at the end of an electric distribution companys transition period during which CTCs are being recovered, certain percentages of electric energy sold by an electric distribution company or electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers must come from certain alternative energy resources. On December 20, 2007, the PAPUC approved PECOs plan to acquire up to 240 MWs of alternative energy credits per year for a five year term. See Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards for additional information. Natural Gas PECOs natural gas sales and transportation revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates. PECOs natural gas distribution base rates for recovery of costs other than purchased natural gas costs will continue in effect until PECO files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. PECOs natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. Approximately 30% of PECOs current total yearly throughput is provided by gas suppliers other than PECO and is related primarily to the supply of PECOs large commercial and industrial customers. Natural gas transportation service provided to customers by PECO remains subject to rate regulation. PECO also provides billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services. PECOs natural gas supply is provided by purchases from a number of suppliers for terms of up to two years. These purchases are delivered under long term firm transportation contracts. PECOs aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 43 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECOs liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 34% of PECOs 2007 2008 heating season planned supplies. Construction Budget PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities. PECOs most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2008 is $394 million. ComEd and PECO Transmission Services ComEd and PECO provide unbundled retail transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERCs open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission 23 Table of Contents facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. Under FERCs Order Nos. 889 and 2004, ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERCs Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the communication of non public information between the transmission owners employees and wholesale merchant employees or the employees of any energy affiliate of the transmission owner. PJM is the independent system operator and the FERC approved RTO for the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day to day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region wide, open access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service. In March 2007, ComEd filed a request with FERC seeking approval to update its transmission rates and change the manner in which ComEds transmission rates are determined from fixed rates to a formula rate. Those matters were resolved in a settlement agreement that was certified by a Settlement Judge in October 2007 and approved by FERC on January 18, 2008. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. In November 2004, FERC issued two orders authorizing ComEd and PECO to recover amounts for a limited time during a specified transitional period as a result of the elimination of through and out (T&O) rates for transmission service scheduled out of or across their respective transmission systems and ending within pre expansion territories of PJM or MISO. The new rates, known as Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustment/Assignment (SECA), were collected from load serving entities and paid to transmission owners within PJM and MISO over a transitional period from December 1, 2004 through March 31, 2006, subject to refund, surcharge and hearing. A hearing was held in May 2006 and the ALJ issued an initial decision in August 2006 finding that the transmission owners overstated their lost revenues in their compliance filings and the SECA rate design was flawed. Additionally, the ALJ recommended that the transmission owners should be ordered to refile their respective compliance filings related to SECA rates. ComEd and PECO filed exceptions to the initial decision and FERC, on review, will determine whether or not to accept the ALJs recommendation. There is no scheduled date for FERC to act on this matter. Separately, settlements have been reached by ComEd and PECO with various parties and by other transmission owners. FERC has approved several of these settlements while others are still awaiting FERC approval. Management of both ComEd and PECO believes that appropriate reserves have been established for the estimated portion of SECA collections that may be required to be refunded. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. On May 31, 2005, FERC issued an order creating an evidentiary hearing process to examine the existing PJM transmission rate design. A number of parties proposed the replacement of that rate design, in which customers in a zone pay a transmission rate based on the cost of transmission facilities in that zone, with several variations including a postage stamp rate design across PJM in which a single, uniform charge would be applied based on the costs of all transmission facilities within PJM wherever located. On July 13, 2006, the ALJ in the case issued an Initial Decision that recommended that FERC implement the postage stamp rate, effective as of April 1, 2006, but also allowed for the potential to phase in rate changes. On April 19, 2007, FERC issued its order on review of the ALJs decision. FERC held that PJMs current rate design for existing facilities is just and reasonable and should not be changed. That is consistent with Exelons position in the case. FERC also held that the costs of new facilities should be allocated under a different rate design. FERC held 24 Table of Contents that the costs of new 500 kilovolts (kV) and above facilities should be socialized across the entire PJM footprint and that the costs of new less than 500 kV facilities should be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. FERC stated that PJMs stakeholders should develop a standard method for allocating the costs of new transmission facilities lower than 500 kV. FERCs decision on existing facilities does not change existing costs, which is substantially more favorable to Exelon than the ALJs decision on existing facilities. In the short term, based on new transmission facilities approved by PJM, it is likely that allocating the costs of new 500 kV facilities across PJM will increase costs to ComEd and reduce costs to PECO, as compared to the allocation methodology in effect before the FERC order. ComEd and PECO cannot estimate the longer term impact on either companys results of operations and cash flows, because of the uncertainties relating to what new facilities will be built and how the costs of new facilities less than 500 kV will be allocated. On May 21, 2007, Exelon and other parties filed requests for rehearing of FERCs April 19, 2007 order. Exelon, on behalf of ComEd, PECO, and Generation, filed for rehearing solely on the issue of socialization of the costs of new facilities 500kV and above. On January 31, 2008, FERC denied rehearing on all issues. FERCs decision may be subject to review in the United States Court of Appeals. On August 1, 2007, ComEd, PECO and several other transmission owners in PJM and the MISO, as directed by a FERC order issued November 18, 2004, filed with FERC to continue the existing transmission rate design between PJM and MISO. On August 22, 2007, additional transmission owners and certain other entities filed protests urging FERC to reject the filing. On January 31, 2008, FERC accepted the filing. FERCs decision may be subject to requests for rehearing and to review in the United States Court of Appeals. On September 17, 2007, a complaint was filed at FERC asking FERC to find that the PJM MISO rate design was unjust and unreasonable and to substitute a rate design that socializes the costs of all existing and new transmission facilities across PJM and MISO. ComEd and PECO filed a response in October 2007 stating that FERC should dismiss the complaint without a hearing. On January 31, 2008, FERC denied the complaint. FERCs decision may be subject to requests for rehearing and to review in the United States Court of Appeals. This matter remains pending. Employees As of December 31, 2007, Exelon and its subsidiaries had approximately 17,800 employees in the following companies: Generation 8,000 ComEd 5,900 PECO 2,300 Other (a) 1,600 Total 17,800 (a) Other includes shared services employees at Exelon Business Services Company, LLC (BSC). Approximately 5,500 employees, including 3,800 employees of ComEd, 1,600 employees of Generation and 100 employees of BSC, are covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) with Local 15 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW Local 15). AmerGen has separate CBAs for each of its nuclear facilities, which cover an aggregate of approximately 750 employees. The Generation CBA with IBEW Local 15 has been extended to September 30, 2010. The CBA for ComEd and BSC expires on September 30, 2008. In addition, a separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, which was ratified on November 7, 2006, covers approximately 160 employees in ComEds System Services Group and expires on October 1, 2009. The Clinton, Oyster Creek and TMI CBAs expire on December 15, 2010, January 31, 2010 and February 28, 2009, 25 Table of Contents respectively. Approximately 1,270 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs cover work hours, wages, benefits and working conditions for the represented employees. The CBAs will expire on March 31, 2010. In addition, Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with Utility Workers of America Local 369, covering approximately 15 employees, which was ratified effective January 31, 2007 and expires January 31, 2011. Exelon Power has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on February 1, 2011 and covers approximately 250 employees. The employees of the Limerick and Peach Bottom nuclear stations are not represented by a union. On May 5, 2005, a majority of these employees elected not to be represented by the IBEW 614. After contesting the election, the National Labor Relations Board ruled that a new election must be conducted. This election took place on November 16, 2006. The employees again voted against union representation. Environmental Regulation General Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by various states and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. Various state environmental protection agencies or boards have jurisdiction over certain activities in states in which Exelon and its subsidiaries do business. State regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated. Those permits must be renewed periodically. Generation either has NPDES permits for all of its generating stations or has pending applications for renewals of such permits while operating under an administrative extension. In July 2004, the EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act requires that the cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts. The Phase II rule established national performance standards for reducing entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing power plants. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its opinion in a challenge to the final Phase II rule brought by environmental groups and several states. The court found that with respect to a number of significant provisions of the Phase II rule, the EPA either exceeded its authority under the Clean Water Act, failed to adequately set forth its rationale for the rule, or failed to follow required procedures for public notice and comment. The court remanded the matter back to the EPA for revisions of the Phase II rule consistent with the courts opinion. The courts opinion has created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final compliance requirements. Several industry parties to the litigation sought review by the entire U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which was denied on July 5, 2007. On November 2, 2007, the industry parties filed petitions seeking review by the U.S. Supreme Court. The respondent environmental and state parties have until February 29, 2008 to respond to the petitions. On July 9, 2007, the EPA formally suspended the Phase II rule due to this uncertainty. Until the EPA finalizes the rule on remand (which could take several years), the state permitting agencies have been instructed by the EPA to continue the current practice of applying their best professional judgment to 26 Table of Contents address impingement and entrainment requirements at plant cooling water intake structures. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail on the impact of this rule to Generation. On December 16, 2005 and February 27, 2006, the Illinois EPA issued notices to Generation alleging violations of state groundwater standards as a result of historical discharges of liquid tritium from a line at the Braidwood Nuclear Generating Station. On March 16, 2006, the Attorney General of the State of Illinois, and the States Attorney for Will County, Illinois filed a civil enforcement action, seeking, among other things, injunctive relief to require certain remedial actions for past tritium releases, and to prevent future releases. In addition, there is one remaining lawsuit alleging property contamination and seeking damages for diminished property value that was filed by a resident owning property near the plant. The allegations in the complaint are substantially similar to prior lawsuits filed by area residents that were voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiffs without prejudice. On December 27, 2007, the judge dismissed Exelon from this litigation, and on January 28, 2008, the judge granted Generations motion for summary judgment against the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs have 30 days from the order of summary judgment to appeal to the U.S. Circuit Court for the Seventh Circuit. Generation believes that appropriate reserves have been recorded for State of Illinois fines and remediation costs in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS No. 5) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. Generation launched an initiative across its nuclear fleet to systematically assess systems that handle tritium and take the necessary actions to minimize the risk of inadvertent discharge of tritium to the environment. On September 28, 2006, Generation announced the final results of the assessment, concluding that no active leaks had been identified at any of Generations 11 nuclear plants and no detectable tritium had been identified beyond any of the plants boundaries other than from permitted discharges, with the exception of Braidwood, as discussed above. The assessment further concluded that none of the tritium concentrations identified in the assessment pose a health or safety threat to the public or to Generations employees or contractors. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These potentially responsible parties (PRPs) can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and 27 Table of Contents RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. MGP Sites MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities. ComEd and PECO have identified former MGP sites for which they may be liable for remediation. ComEd and PECO perform a detailed study of the MGP reserve on a periodic basis. ComEd and PECO believe that appropriate reserves have been recorded. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Cotter Corporation The EPA has advised Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary, that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. Generation has accrued what it believes to be an adequate amount within the estimated cost range to cover its anticipated share of the liability. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the EPA and the various state environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution. The Amendments include a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from power plants. Flue gas desulphurization systems (SO2 scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units other than the Keystone Station. Keystone is subject to, and in compliance with, the Acid Rain Program Phase II SO2 and NOx limits of the Amendments, which became effective January 1, 2000. Generation and the other Keystone co owners formally approved on June 30, 2006 a capital plan to install SO2 scrubbers at the station for which Exelons share, based on its 20.99% ownership interest, would be approximately $150 million. As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, total costs incurred, including capitalized interest, were $27 million and $4 million, respectively. Exelon anticipates spending approximately $93 million and $26 million in 2008 and 2009, respectively, related to this project. The Keystone SO2 scrubbers are expected to be operational by 2009. In addition, Generation and the other Keystone co owners purchase SO2 emission allowances as part of their compliance strategy to meet Phase II limits. During March 2005, the EPA finalized several new rulemakings designed to reduce power plant emissions of SO2, NOx and mercury. In its Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), the EPA established new annual (applicable in 23 eastern states) and ozone season (applicable in 25 eastern states) NOx emission caps that are scheduled to take effect in 2009. Further, CAIR requires an additional reduction of SO2 emissions in 23 eastern states starting in 2010. CAIR also requires an additional reduction of NOx and SO2 emissions in 2015. The new SO2 and NOx emission caps finalized by the EPA are substantially below current industry emission levels. Starting in 2009, the CAIR regulations will replace 28 Table of Contents the current EPA NOx State Implementation Plan (SIP) Call regulation that currently regulates summertime NOx emissions, under a cap and trade program, from most of Exelons fossil generation in the affected eastern United States (except Texas). Exelon is currently operating in compliance with the NOx SIP Call and has installed various NOx pollution control devices at a number of its fossil units to reduce NOx emissions. Exelons fossil units in the Dallas/Fort Worth area currently operate under tight state and local NOx regulations and will be further regulated by the annual NOx requirements of CAIR starting in 2009. In addition, Exelons fossil units in the Dallas/Fort Worth area will be subject to more stringent state NOx regulations starting in 2009. In a separate rulemaking, also issued in March 2005, the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), the EPA finalized a national program to cap mercury emissions from coal fired generating units starting in 2010, with a second reduction in the mercury emission cap level scheduled for 2018. In its final CAMR, the EPA determined that it would not regulate nickel emissions from oil fired power plants, as it had considered in its proposed rulemaking. Generation is currently evaluating its compliance options with regard to the final CAIR and CAMR regulations. Final compliance decisions will be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the final form of state implementing regulations, some of which are still under development, as well as the resolution of legal challenges to the Federal rules initiated by certain parties (not including Exelon) in the Federal courts. During 2006, Pennsylvania enacted a state level mercury regulation that is more stringent than the Federal CAMR. Under the first phase of the regulation, starting in 2010, pulverized coal units will be required to meet either an emission rate of 0.024 lb mercury/GWh or an 80% mercury capture efficiency and comply with a unit level annual mercury emissions limit that must be met by surrendering non tradable mercury allowances. Under the second phase of the final regulation, starting in 2015, units will be required to meet either a 0.012 lb/GWh emission rate or 90% capture efficiency and a reduced annual emissions limit. While the PDEP rulemaking does not allow for mercury emission allowance trading for compliance, it does allow for emission limit compliance on a facility or system wide (under common ownership) basis. Exelon is currently developing its compliance plans for Pennsylvania and expects a significant portion of its compliance will be achieved via co benefit mercury reductions resulting from existing SO2 scrubber operations at Eddystone and Cromby coal units, as well as the planned SO2 scrubbers at the Keystone units. In addition to Federal and state regulatory activities, several legislative proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including generating plants, have been proposed in the United States Congress. For example, several multi pollutant bills have been introduced that would reduce generating plant emissions of NOx, SO2, mercury and carbon dioxide starting late this decade and into the next decade. At this time, Exelon can provide no assurance that new legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, will not have a significant effect on Generations operations and cash flows. On August 6, 2007, ComEd received a Notice and Finding of Violation (NOV), addressed to it and Midwest Generation, LLC (Midwest Generation) from the EPA, alleging that ComEd and Midwest Generation have violated and are continuing to violate several provisions of the Federal Clean Air Act as a result of the modification and or operation of six electric generation stations located in northern Illinois that have been owned and operated by Midwest Generation since 1999. The EPA requested information related to the stations in 2003, and ComEd has been cooperating with the EPA since the time of such request. The NOV states that the EPA may issue an order requiring compliance with the relevant Clean Air Act provisions and may seek injunctive relief and or civil penalties, all pursuant to the EPAs enforcement authority under the Clean Air Act. The generating stations that are the subject of the NOV are currently owned and operated by Midwest Generation, which purchased the stations in December 1999 from ComEd. Under the terms of 29 Table of Contents the agreement governing that sale, Midwest Generation and its affiliate, Edison Mission Energy (EME), assumed responsibility for environmental liabilities associated with the ownership, occupancy, use and operation of the stations, including responsibility for compliance of the stations with environmental laws before the purchase of the stations by Midwest Generation. Midwest Generation and EME further agreed to indemnify and hold ComEd and its affiliates harmless from claims, fines, penalties, liabilities and expenses arising from third party claims against ComEd resulting from or arising out of the environmental liabilities assumed by Midwest Generation and EME under the terms of the agreement governing the sale. In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation assumed ComEds rights and obligations related to its former generation business. At this time, Exelon, Generation and ComEd are unable to predict the ultimate resolution of the claims alleged in the NOV, the costs that might be incurred by Generation or the amount of indemnity that may be available from Midwest Generation and EME; however Exelon, Generation and ComEd concluded that a loss is not probable and, accordingly, they have not recorded a reserve for the NOV. Global Climate Change Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a significant contributor to the human caused emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, hydroelectric and landfill gas), has a relatively small GHG emission profile or carbon footprint compared to other generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low carbon intensity assets, Generations emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide (CO2) emitted per kWh of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions from the direct combustion of fossil fuels at its generating plants; CO2, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO2 representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from combustion of fossil fuels represent approximately 90% of Exelons total GHG emissions; this is also the most variable component of its emissions to forecast due to the intermediate and peaking profile of Exelons fossil generating fleet. However, only approximately 7% of Exelons total electric supply is provided by the fossil fuel generating plants owned by Exelon. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on its gas pipeline system, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) leakage in its electric operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil combustion in its motor vehicles. Despite this small carbon footprint, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and through mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. Physical Risks. Physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of Exelons operations. Exelon is currently evaluating potential physical risk issues to its operations resulting from climate change, as well as potential options to manage those risks. In general, weather patterns and the related impact on electricity and gas usage affect Exelons results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below moderate levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. As a corollary, moderate temperatures in the winter adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Extreme weather conditions may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital expenditures and challenging their ability to meet peak customer demand, thereby causing detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs operations. 30 Table of Contents Generations operations are also affected by weather, both in terms of demand for electricity and in operating conditions. The effects of unusually warm or cold weather on Generations results of operations depend on the nature of its market position at the time of the unusual weather. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions while performing analysis and necessary planning for severe weather driven scenarios. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and transmission capacity, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is needed. These conditions, which cannot be reliably predicted, may have an adverse effect by requiring Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Additionally, Exelon is affected by the occurrence of extreme weather events such as hurricanes and storms in its service territories and throughout the United States. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within Exelons service areas can also directly affect Exelons capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. Finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Exelons continued operation, particularly the cooling of Exelons generating units. Climate Change Legislation. Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs to either further limit the GHG emissions from its operations or in procuring emission allowance credits. Numerous bills have been introduced in Congress that address climate change from different perspectives, including a cap on carbon emissions with emitters allowed to trade unused emission allowances (cap and trade), a tax on carbon emissions and incentives to develop low carbon technology. Exelon supports the enactment, through Federal legislation, of a cap and trade system for GHG emissions that is mandatory, economy wide and designed in a way to limit potential harm to the economy and the competitiveness of U.S business. Exelons fossil generation already operates under cap and trade programs for NOx and SO2. Exelon believes that any mechanism for allocation of emission credits should include allowances for distribution companies to help offset the cost of GHG emission credits for the end user. In addition, Exelon supports a pre determined cap on the price of emission allowances (cost containment mechanisms) that escalates over time, to limit economic effects of the cost of GHG regulation. Two major bills have been introduced in the United States Senate, the Bingaman Specter Low Carbon Economy Act and the Lieberman Warner Americas Climate Security Act. Both bills create an economy wide, cap and trade program. The Low Carbon Economy Act would reduce emissions by 15% below 2005 levels by 2030, set a safety valve price for CO2 emissions at $12 per metric ton of CO2 emissions rising 5% above inflation per year, and initially auction 24% of allowances rising to 53% in 2030. Under the Low Carbon Economy Act, 29% of total allowances are given, at no charge, to generators in the electric sector based on heat input. The Americas Climate Security Act would reduce emissions by 70% from 2005 levels from covered sources by 2050, create a Carbon Market Efficiency Board to control costs of the program and initially auction 26.5% of the allowances rising to 69.5% in 2031. The bill gives 19% of the allowances to electric generators based on their heat input and 9% of allowances to electric local distribution companies for the benefit of their customers. The allowances to generators phase out to zero by 2031. On December 5, 2007, the Senate Environment and Public 31 Table of Contents Works Committee approved Americas Climate Security Act by a vote of 10 to 8. The full Senate is expected to debate the legislation in 2008. The House of Representatives Energy and Commerce Committee has not introduced a vehicle for debate to address climate change. Legislative efforts in Illinois and Pennsylvania related to climate change have focused primarily on energy efficiency, demand response and renewable energy initiatives. The Settlement Legislation enacted in Illinois in 2007 requires electric utilities to use cost effective energy efficiency resources to meet specific incremental annual energy savings goals. The Settlement Legislation also requires procurement plans of electric utilities in Illinois to include cost effective renewable energy resources that meet a defined portion of total electricity supplied to retail customers. In Pennsylvania, the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act of 2004 mandated that, beginning in 2007 or at the end of an electric distribution companys restructuring period, specified percentages of electric energy sold by the electric distribution company or the electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers must come from alternative energy resources. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in the case of Massachusetts v. U. S. Environmental Protection Agency holding that CO2 and other GHG emissions are pollutants subject to regulation under the new motor vehicle provisions of the Clean Air Act. The case was remanded to the EPA for further rulemaking to determine whether GHG emissions may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, or in the alternative provide a reasonable explanation why GHG emissions should not be regulated. Possible outcomes from this decision include regulation of GHG emissions not only from motor vehicles but also from manufacturing plants, including electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, under a new EPA rule and Federal or state legislation. At a regional level, on August 24, 2005, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a cooperative effort by Northeastern and Mid Atlantic states to reduce CO2 emissions, released a program proposal. The RGGI Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is an agreement to stabilize aggregate CO2 emissions from power plants in participating states at current levels from 2009 to 2015. Further, reductions from current levels would be required to be phased in starting in 2016 such that by 2019 there would be a 10% reduction in participating state power plant CO2 emissions. As of December 31, 2007, states participating in the RGGI MOU include Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York and Vermont. On August 15, 2006, the RGGI model rule was finalized, and RGGI member states are currently in the process of adopting state level rules to implement the program starting in 2009. Generation owns a small amount of affected peaking and intermediate generating capacity in the RGGI region, including Maine, Massachusetts and New Jersey. On November 15, 2007, six midwest state Governors (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin) signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Accord (the Accord). Under the Accord, an inter state work group is to be formed to establish a Midwestern GHG Reduction Program that will: (1) establish GHG reduction targets and timeframes consistent with member state targets; (2) develop a market based and multi sector cap and trade program to help achieve GHG reductions; and (3) develop other mechanisms and policies to assist in meeting GHG reduction targets (e.g. a low carbon fuel standard). All undertakings of the Accord are to be completed within 30 months after the effective date of the Accord, including the development of a proposed cap and trade agreement and model rule within 12 months. The United States is currently not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, which is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The United Nations Kyoto Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels during the 2008 2012 time period. At the conclusion of the December 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali, Indonesia, the Bali Action Plan was adopted, which identifies a work group, process and timeline for the consideration of possible 32 Table of Contents post 2012 international actions to further address climate change. The United States is expected to participate in this process. Recommendations will be reviewed at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change meeting in 2009. At this time, Exelon is unable to predict the potential impacts of any future mandatory governmental GHG legislative or regulatory requirements on its businesses. Exelons Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other virtually non GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelons low carbon generating fleet is seen as an asset. Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow as policymakers take action to address global climate issues. Despite Exelons low GHG emission intensity and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon announced on May 6, 2005 that it has established a voluntary goal to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. The 8% reduction goal represents a decrease of an estimated 1.3 million metric tons of GHG emissions. Exelon will incorporate recognition of GHG emissions and their potential cost into its business analyses as a means to promote internal investment in activities that produce fewer GHG emissions. Exelon made this pledge under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Climate Leaders program, a voluntary industry government partnership addressing climate change. As of December 31, 2007, Exelon expects to achieve its 2008 voluntary GHG reduction goal through its planned GHG management efforts, including the previous closure of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and its current energy efficiency initiatives. The anticipated cost of achieving the voluntary GHG emissions reduction goal is not expected to have a material effect on Exelons future competitive position, results of operations, earnings, financial position or cash flows. Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Approximately 29 states have adopted some form of renewable portfolio standard (RPS) legislation. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may determine to adopt such legislation in the future. Upon enactment of the Settlement Legislation in August 2007, Illinois electric utilities became subject to newly mandated increases in energy efficiency and renewable energy standards and are now required to use cost effective energy efficiency and demand response resources to meet defined incremental annual program energy and demand savings goals. These goals generally call for reductions in delivered energy from the prior year for energy efficiency programs and for reductions in peak demand from the prior year for eligible customers. The goals are subject to rate impact caps each year. Utilities will be allowed current recovery of costs for energy efficiency and demand response programs, subject to approval by the ICC. Failure to comply with the energy efficiency and demand response requirements in the Settlement Legislation would result in ComEd being subject to penalties and other charges. In November 2007, pursuant to these requirements, ComEd filed its initial Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Plan with the ICC. This plan begins June 1, 2008, and is designed to meet the first three years of the Settlement Legislations energy efficiency and demand response goals, including reductions in delivered energy and in ComEds supply customers peak demand. The Settlement Legislation also requires that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include cost effective renewable energy resources in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 33 Table of Contents 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources subject to legislated rate impact criteria. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. In November 2004, Pennsylvania adopted the AEPS Act. The AEPS Act mandates that two years after its effective date (February 28, 2005) at least 1.5% of electric energy sold by an electric distribution company or electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers must come from Tier I alternative energy resources. The Tier I requirement escalates to 8.0% by the 15th year after the effective date of the AEPS Act. The AEPS Act also establishes a Tier II requirement of 4.2% for years one through four. This requirement grows to 10.0% by the 15th year. In March 2005, the PAPUC issued its first implementation order related to the AEPS. In this order, the PAPUC established a schedule for Tier I and Tier II resources with year one covering the period June 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. During year one, compliance with the Tier I and Tier II requirements began on February 28, 2007. Tier I resources include: solar photovoltaic energy, wind power, low impact hydro, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy and coal mine methane. A small percentage of the Tier I requirements must be met specifically by solar photovoltaic technologies. Tier II resources include: waste coal, distributed generation systems, demand side management, large scale hydropower, municipal solid waste and several other technologies. The AEPS Act provides an exemption for electric distribution companies that have not reached the end of their transition period during which CTCs or intangible transition charges are being recovered. At the conclusion of the electric distribution companys transition period, this exemption no longer applies and compliance by the electric distribution company is required. PECOs transition period expires December 31, 2010. PECOs mandatory obligation to comply with the requirements of the AEPS Act begins upon the expiration of its generation rate cap on December 31, 2010. At this point in time, it is not certain that sufficient Tier I and solar renewable resources will be available in the market. If sufficient resources are not available in the market for electric distribution companies to meet their requirements, the PAPUC has the ability to make a force majeure determination to either reduce or remove the requirements under the AEPS Act. In the first year after the end of an electric distribution companys cost recovery period, the AEPS Act provides for cost recovery on a full and current basis pursuant to an automatic energy adjustment charge as a cost of generation supply. The banking of credits from voluntary purchases of Tier I and Tier II sources by electric distribution companies prior to the expiration of their specific cost recovery periods is also allowed under the AEPS Act. Voluntary purchases under the AEPS Act are deferred as a regulatory asset by the electric distribution company and are fully recoverable at the end of the cost recovery period, also pursuant to the automatic energy adjustment clause as a cost of generation supply. In March 2007, PECO filed a request with the PAPUC for approval to acquire and bank up to 450,000 non solar Tier I Alternative Energy Credits (equivalent to up to 240 MWs of electricity generated by wind) annually for a five year term in order to prepare for 2011, the first year of PECOs required compliance following the completion of its restructuring period. PECO proposed that all of the costs it incurs in connection with such procurement prior to 2011 be deferred as a regulatory asset with a return on the unamortized balance in accordance with the AEPS Act. Those costs, and PECOs AEPS Act compliance costs incurred thereafter, would be recovered through a reconcilable ratemaking mechanism as contemplated by the AEPS Act. Pursuant to the AEPS Act, all deferred costs will be recovered from customers in 2011. Additionally, all AEPS related costs incurred after 2010 are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis. On December 20, 2007, the PAPUC approved PECOs proposal to begin the procurement of alternative energy credits in fulfillment of Pennsylvanias AEPS Act. 34 Table of Contents While Generation is not directly affected by the AEPS Act from a compliance perspective, increased deployment of renewable and alternative energy resources within the regional power pool resulting from the AEPS Act will have some effect on regional energy markets and, at the same time, may present some opportunities for sales of Generations renewable power, including from Generations hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations. Costs of Environmental Remediation At December 31, 2007, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO had accrued $132 million, $14 million, $77 million and $41 million, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation alternatives. Exelon, ComEd and PECO have recorded regulatory assets of $96 million, $66 million and $30 million, respectively, related to the recovery of MGP remediation costs. See Notes 19 and 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. The amounts to be expended in 2008 at Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO for compliance with environmental requirements is expected to total approximately $19 million, $1 million, $10 million and $8 million, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Managing the Risks in the Business Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have considered the business challenges facing them and have adopted certain risk management activities. The Registrants recognize that their risk management activities address only certain of the challenges facing the Registrants and that those activities may not be effective in all circumstances. A discussion of the risks to which the Registrants businesses are subject and the potential consequences of those risks are contained in ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate the challenges of their businesses and their ability to identify and mitigate these risks. Generation Nuclear capacity factors and refueling outages. Capacity factors, which are significantly affected by the number and duration of refueling outages, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generations nuclear plants have historically benefited from minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history. Generation continues to aggressively manage its scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable generation base for Generations short and long term supply commitments and Power Team trading activities. Also, during scheduled refueling outages, Generation performs maintenance and equipment upgrades in order to minimize the occurrence of unplanned outages and to maintain safe reliable operations. Adequacy of funds to decommission nuclear power plants. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants following their retirement from service. The ICC permitted ComEd through 2006, and the PAPUC permits PECO to collect funds, from their customers, which are deposited in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation. Beginning in 2008, PECO will be recovering approximately $29 million annually for nuclear decommissioning. It is anticipated that these collections will continue through the operating license life of each of the former PECO units, with adjustments every five years, subject to certain limitations, to reflect changes in cost estimates and decommissioning trust fund performance. These trust funds, together with earnings thereon, will be 35 Table of Contents used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Certain decommissioning costs are currently being incurred; however these current amounts are not considered material. In order to ensure adequate funding, Generation develops its decommissioning trust fund investment strategy based on an estimate of the timing and costs associated with nuclear decommissioning. To the extent that actual decommissioning activities result in higher costs or are incurred in the nearer term, Generation may not have sufficient funds to pay for decommissioning. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held $6.8 billion of investments in trust funds at December 31, 2007. On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement with EnergySolutions, Inc. and its affiliates, including ZionSolutions, whereby, upon completion of the agreement following the satisfaction of a number of closing conditions, Generation will transfer to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in nuclear decommissioning trusts (approximately $870 million). In consideration for Generations transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions will assume decommissioning and other liabilities associated with Zion Station. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on nuclear decommissioning and trust funds. Credit risk. In order to evaluate the viability of Generations counterparties, Generation has implemented credit risk management procedures designed to mitigate the risks associated with these transactions. These policies include counterparty credit limits and, in some cases, require deposits or letters of credit to be posted by certain counterparties. Generations counterparty credit limits are based on an internal credit review that considers a variety of factors, including the results of a scoring model, leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Generation attempts to enter into enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with its counterparties, which reduce Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. Typically, each enabling agreement is for a specific commodity and so, with respect to each individual counterparty, netting is limited to transactions involving that specific commodity product, except where master netting agreements exist with a counterparty that allows for cross product netting. To the extent that a counterpartys credit limit and letter of credit thresholds are exceeded, the counterparty is required to post collateral with Generation as specified in each enabling agreement. Generation monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. Extreme weather. Generation incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Wholesale energy market prices. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2008 and 2009 and, with the ComEd swap arrangement, also for 2010 into 2013. However, except for the ComEd swap arrangement, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk beyond 2009 for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 2008 for its energy marketing portfolio. Commodity prices. Generations Power Team manages the output of Generations assets and energy sales to optimize value and reduce the volatility of Generations earnings and cash flows. 36 Table of Contents Generation attempts to manage its exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. Further, the supply markets for coal, natural gas and the uranium and services needed for nuclear fuel assemblies, which are used to operate the generating facilities, are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. While it is not possible to predict the ultimate cost or availability of the commodities, Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate some of the price risk associated with these commodities. ComEd and PECO Post transition rates. ComEd engaged extensively in the regulatory and legislative process related to the end of its transition period to manage the risk that it would not be able to pass through its power purchase costs to customers. In an effort to mitigate this risk, ComEd and Generation entered into the Settlement in July 2007 that was subsequently reflected in Settlement Legislation that ComEd believes will promote competition in Illinois retail markets and allow utilities to recover their approved supply costs while relieving pressure for rate freeze, generation tax, or other similar legislation. The Settlement stipulates that if legislation is enacted by the Illinois General Assembly prior to August 1, 2011 that freezes rates or imposes a generation tax, ComEd, Generation and other contributors to rate relief fund for Illinois electric customers could terminate their funding commitments made as part of the Settlement. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. While PECO has made no regulatory filings to date to revise its transmission and distribution rates established in 2000, PECO will continue to work with Federal and state regulators, state and local governments, customer representatives and other interested parties to develop appropriate processes for establishing future rates in restructured electricity markets. PECO will strive to ensure that future rate structures recognize the substantial improvements PECO has made, and will continue to make, in its transmission and distribution systems. PECO will also work to ensure that its post 2010 retail generation rates are adequate to cover its costs of obtaining electricity from its suppliers, which could include Generation. Power supply risks. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, ComEd has supplier forward contracts, effective January 2007, with various energy providers. ComEd is allowed by the ICC to recover from customers the cost of purchased electricity. Therefore, should an approved supplier default and ComEd be required to purchase replacement electricity, ComEd would be entitled to recover any incremental costs from customers. To fulfill a requirement of the Settlement and to mitigate ComEds exposure to the volatility of market prices, ComEd and Generation entered into a five year financial swap arrangement, the effect of which is to cause ComEd to pay fixed prices and cause Generation to pay a market price for a portion of ComEds load. The financial swap contract dovetails with ComEds remaining auction contracts for energy, increasing in volume as the contracts expire over the next few years. Pursuant to the Settlement Legislation and the ICC approved procurement model, this arrangement will be deemed prudent and ComEd will receive full cost recovery in rates. To effectively manage its obligation to provide power to meet its customers demand, PECO has a full requirements PPA with Generation that reduces PECOs exposure to the volatility of customer demand and market prices through 2010. Transmission congestion. ComEd and PECO have made, and expect to continue to make, significant capital expenditures to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of their transmission systems. On an ongoing basis, PJM, in cooperation with ComEd and PECO, performs screening 37 Table of Contents analyses based on forecasts of future transmission system conditions in order to determine system reinforcements needed to maintain the reliable and economic operation of both systems. General Business Security risk. The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans, long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry is working with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. Interest rates. The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and or treasury rate locks when deemed appropriate to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for further information. Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 7, 2008 Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 62 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and President, Exelon Generation Clark, Frank M. 62 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd OBrien, Denis P. 47 Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer and President, PECO Crane, Christopher M. 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Generation McLean, Ian P. 58 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets Moler, Elizabeth A. 59 Executive Vice President, Governmental and Environmental Affairs and Public Policy Von Hoene Jr., William A. 54 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Zopp, Andrea L. 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Hilzinger, Matthew F. 44 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Generation Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 62 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon and President Crane, Christopher M. 49 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and Chief Operating Officer Pardee, Charles G. 48 Senior Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear Schiavoni, Mark A. 52 Senior Vice President and President, Exelon Power Cornew, Kenneth W. 42 Senior Vice President, Exelon and President, Power Team Hilzinger, Matthew F. 44 Senior Vice President, Exelon and Chief Financial Officer Veurink, Jon D. 43 Vice President and Controller 38 Table of Contents ComEd Name Age Position Clark, Frank M. 62 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mitchell, J. Barry 60 President and Chief Operating Officer Pramaggiore, Anne R. 49 Executive Vice President Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs McDonald, Robert K. 52 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer Hooker, John T. 59 Senior Vice President, State Legislative and Governmental Affairs Galvanoni, Matthew R. 35 Vice President and Controller PECO Name Age Position OBrien, Denis P. 47 Executive Vice President, Exelon, Chief Executive Officer and President Barnett, Phillip S. 44 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Adams, Craig L. 55 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Crutchfield, Lisa 44 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs Galvanoni, Matthew R. 35 Vice President and Controller Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective companys board of directors until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Rowe was Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Exelon from 2004 to 2007 and has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Exelon since 2002. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Clark was Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff of Exelon and President of ComEd from 2004 to 2005; Senior Vice President, Exelon, and Executive Vice President of Exelon Energy Delivery and President ComEd from 2003 to 2004; and Senior Vice President Exelon Energy Delivery and President ComEd from 2002 to 2003. Mr. Clark is listed as an executive officer of Exelon by reason of his position as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. OBrien was President of PECO from 2003 to 2007; and Executive Vice President of PECO from 2002 to 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Crane was Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2004 to 2007; and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2003 to 2004; and Senior Vice President for Exelon Nuclear from 2000 to 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Executive Vice President, Exelon and President, Power Team from 2002 to 2008. Ms. Moler was elected to her listed position in 2002. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Von Hoene was Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon from 2006 to 2008; Senior Vice President and acting General Counsel, Exelon from 2005 to 2006; Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Exelon from 2004 to 2005; and Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Exelon from 2002 to 2004. 39 Table of Contents Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Zopp was Senior Vice President, Exelon and Chief Human Resources Officer from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon from 2006 to 2007; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Sears Holding Corporation from 2003 to 2005; Vice President, Deputy General Counsel, Sara Lee Corporation from 2000 to 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Senior Vice President, Exelon and Corporate Controller from 2005 to 2008; Vice President, Exelon and Corporate Controller from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Hilzinger was Principal Accounting Officer for ComEd and PECO through December 31, 2006. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Pardee was Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2005 to 2007; Senior Vice President Engineering and Technical Services from 2004 to 2005; Senior Vice President Nuclear Services from 2003 to 2004; and Senior Vice President of the Mid Atlantic Regional Operating Group from 2002 to 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Schiavoni was Vice President of Exelon Power from 2003 to 2004; and Vice President of Northeast Operations of Exelon Power from 2002 to 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Cornew held the following positions in the Power Team division of Exelon Generation: Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President, Power Transactions and Wholesale Marketing from 2004 to 2007; Vice President, Portfolio Management from 2003 to 2004; and Vice President, Long Term Transactions from 2000 to 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Veurink was a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP from 2000 to 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mitchell was President of ComEd from 2005 to 2007; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Exelon during 2005; and Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Exelon from 2002 to 2005. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Pramaggiore was Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President, Regulatory and Strategic Services from 2002 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McDonald was Senior Vice President of Financial Planning and Chief Risk Officer of Exelon during 2005; and Vice President of Financial Planning and Risk Management of Exelon from 2002 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hooker served as Senior Vice President, ComEd, Legislative and External Affairs and Exelon Energy Delivery Real Estate and Property Management from 2003 to 2005. Mr. Hooker served as Vice President Exelon Energy Delivery Property Management and ComEd Legislative and External Affairs during 2003; and Vice President Distribution Services and Public Affairs from 1999 to 2003. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Galvanoni was Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon during 2006. Mr. Galvanoni has also served as Director of Accounting and Reporting, Generation from 2004 to 2005 and was Director of External Reporting, Exelon from 2002 to 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Barnett was Senior Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon, from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President Finance, Exelon Generation from 2003 to 2005; and Chief Financial Officer of GE Capital TIP Intermodal Services from 2001 2003. 40 Table of Contents Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Adams was Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, Exelon Business Services Company, LLC from 2004 to 2007; and Senior Vice President, Exelon Energy Delivery Support Services from 2002 to 2004. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Crutchfield served as Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs at PECO from 2003 to 2007; and Vice President and General Manager at TIAA CREF Southern Service Center from 2000 to 2002. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Registrants each operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond their control. The Registrants management regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the Registrants businesses and discusses those risks with the Risk Oversight Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors and the ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. The risk factors below, as well as the risks discussed in ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Exelon Liquidity and Capital Resources, may adversely affect the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. While each of the Registrants believes it has identified and discussed the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect its performance or financial condition. General Business The following risk factors may adversely impact several or all of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Exelons generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated. Fundamental changes in regulation could disrupt Exelons business plans and adversely affect its operations and financial results. Substantially all aspects of the businesses of Exelon and its subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation. Further, Exelons operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of its generation business to sell power at market based rates, as opposed to cost based or other similarly regulated rates, and the ability of its energy delivery businesses to recover their costs for purchased power and their costs of distribution of power to their customers. In its business planning and in the management of its operations, Exelon must address the effects of regulation of its businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking jurisdictions and taxing authorities. In particular, state and Federal legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets exceed the marginal cost of operating nuclear plants, claims that this difference is evidence that the competitive model is not working, and resulting calls for some form of re regulation, the elimination of marginal pricing, the imposition of a generation tax, or some other means of reducing the earnings of Generation and its competitors. Although Exelon does not agree with this position, the effectiveness of Exelon in meeting these challenges affects its operating results and cash flows and the value of its generation and energy delivery assets. Fundamental changes in the nature of the regulation of Exelons businesses would require changes in its business planning models and could adversely affect its operating results and the value of its assets. 41 Table of Contents The Settlement Legislation enacted in Illinois in 2007 providing rate relief to Illinois electric customers and requiring other changes in the electric industry in lieu of harmful alternatives such as rate freezes, caps, or a tax on generation, could be reversed or modified by new legislation that could be harmful to ComEd and Generation. The Settlement Legislation enacted in Illinois in August 2007 contemplates approximately $1 billion of rate relief to Illinois electric customers. The Settlement Legislation will also require several other changes to the electric industry in Illinois, including the creation of a new state power agency, an alternative method of purchasing power for consumers and a mandated increase in energy efficiency and renewable energy standards. This Settlement Legislation was the result of the Settlement reached by ComEd, Generation, and other utilities and generators in Illinois with various representatives of the State of Illinois concluding months of extensive discussions and following various bills that had been proposed by the Illinois House of Representatives and Senate in an attempt to address higher electric bills experienced in Illinois since the end of the legislatively mandated transition and rate freeze at the end of 2006. The Settlement Legislation addressed those concerns without implementing a rate freeze, generation tax, or other alternative measures that Exelon believes would have been harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. For more information regarding potential risks associated with such legislation, see Illinois Settlement Agreement and Retail Electric Services in Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Although the Settlement Legislation allows the contributors to the rate relief to terminate their funding commitments and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief in the event that, prior to August 1, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly passes legislation that freezes or reduces electric rates of or imposes a generation tax on parties to the Settlement, there is no guarantee that such legislation will not be passed and enacted in Illinois. The experience in Illinois in 2007 suggests a risk that the Illinois General Assembly may threaten extreme measures again in the future in an attempt to force electric utilities and generators to make further concessions. Such legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on ComEd and Generations results of operations and cash flows. Results of operations may be negatively affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. These medical benefit costs are increasing at a rate that is significantly greater than the rate of general inflation. Additionally, it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate which is higher than anticipated by the Registrants. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs, pension costs, or other increasing costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants and under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. For example, certain investments within the trusts hold underlying securities in subprime mortgage related assets. Due to recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets, the fair value of these subprime related investments may decline. Exelon expects that market conditions will continue to evolve, and that the fair value of Exelons subprime related investments may frequently change. A decline in the market value of the assets, as was experienced in prior periods, may increase the funding requirements of the obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants and under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit 42 Table of Contents plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, their results of operation and financial position could be negatively affected. Exelons holding company structure could limit its ability to pay dividends. Exelon is a holding company with no material assets other than the investment in its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2006 and 2007, ComEd did not pay any dividend. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. As a result of the Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. These standards, which previously were being applied on a voluntary basis, became mandatory on June 18, 2007. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages. In addition, the 43 Table of Contents Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. Generation will incur material costs of compliance if regulations under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act require retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at power plants owned by Generation. In addition, the amounts of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to operate the plant after the Section 316(b) matter is ultimately resolved. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to contribute to a fund with a material contribution to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if federal and or state legislation is adopted to address climate change. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. Select northeast and mid Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and or state legislation to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon and Generation may incur material costs to either further limit the GHG emissions from its operations or in procuring emission allowance credits. For more information regarding climate change, see Global Climate Change in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. War, acts and threats of terrorism, natural disaster and other significant events may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. Exelon does not know the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Exelons operations. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect Exelons operations and its ability to raise capital. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Exelons revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect Exelons results of operations and its 44 Table of Contents ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in increased costs. Additionally, Exelon is affected by changes in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes, storms and other natural disasters in its service territory and throughout the U.S. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive which could result in increased costs including supply chain costs. See Environmental Regulation in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K for further information. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelons 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like kind exchange transaction. If the IRS is successful in its challenge, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that becomes currently payable. As of December 31, 2007, Exelons and ComEds potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $992 million. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, it could negatively affect Exelons and ComEds results of operations by up to $167 million (after tax) related to interest expense. The timing of the final resolution of this matter is unknown. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected, and tax credits, including the potential phase out of tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal, in the financial statements. Exelon has not recorded a valuation allowance for $15 million of deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. See Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Increases in taxes and fees. Due to the revenue needs of the states and jurisdictions in which the Registrants operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. In August 2007, the Governor of Illinois signed Illinois SB 1544 into law, which became effective January 1, 2008. SB 1544 provides for market based sourcing of the generation and sale of electricity for Illinois income tax purposes. This legislation will affect the method in which sales of electricity are apportioned in the determination of Illinois income tax. The language in SB 1544 is broad based and undefined and expressly provides that the sourcing of electricity may be subject to rules prescribed by the Illinois Department of Revenue. Based on the limited statutory definitions and legislative intent available at this time, Exelon cannot reasonably estimate the impact on its Illinois income tax. The Illinois Department of Revenue is expected to issue guidance implementing this legislation. As guidance is released, Exelon will further assess the impact that SB 1544 may have on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. On January 13, 2008, Illinois enacted SB 783 amending the language of SB 1544 to expressly provide that the Department of Revenue shall establish utility sourcing regulations. 45 Table of Contents Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon and its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance of these guaranteed obligations by the third parties, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results or financial condition of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding guarantees. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. The Registrants may continue to make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. It is possible that FERC or the state public utility commissions may impose certain other restrictions on the investments that the Registrants may make. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. Generation Market Transition Risks Due to its dependence on its two most significant customers, ComEd and PECO, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of either of its most significant customers. Generation currently provides power under supplier forward contracts with ComEd to supply up to 35% of ComEds electricity supply requirements and a PPA with PECO to meet 100% of PECOs electricity supply requirements. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds and PECOs continued payments under these supplier forward contracts and the PPA and would be adversely affected by negative events affecting these agreements, including the non performance or a change in the creditworthiness of either ComEd or PECO. A default by ComEd or PECO under these agreements would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. 46 Table of Contents Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generations physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generations cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation based taxes and contributions to rate relief packages. Generations business may be negatively affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. RTOs. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, and to purchase power to meet obligations not provided by its own resources. These wholesale markets allow Generation to take advantage of market price opportunities but also expose Generation to market risk. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features, which may create trading barriers among the markets. Approximately 83% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations will depend on (1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the development of competitive wholesale power markets, such as the PJM market, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market, such as, for example, withdrawal of significant participants from the regional wholesale markets. Generation could also be adversely affected by efforts of state legislatures and regulatory authorities to respond to the concerns of consumers or others about rising costs of energy that are reflected through wholesale markets. Competitive Electric Generation Suppliers. Because retail customers in both Pennsylvania and Illinois can switch from PECO or ComEd to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generations obligation to supply PECO with all of the energy PECO needs to fulfill its default service obligation and to provide the supply needed to serve Generations share of the ComEd load is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is the ability of retail customers to switch to competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from ComEd or PECO than Generation anticipates, the PECO and or ComEd load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to 47 Table of Contents market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more of such customers switch than Generation anticipates, the PECO and /or ComEd load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, caused Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal legislative or regulatory actions that could weaken competition in the wholesale markets or affect pricing rules in the RTO markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which escalated during 2006 as retail rate freezes expired and prices of electricity increased with rising fuel prices, is expected to continue in 2008. A number of advocacy groups have urged FERC to reconsider its support of competitive wholesale electricity markets and require the RTOs to revise the rules governing the RTO administered markets. In particular, the advocacy groups oppose the RTOs use of a single clearing price for electricity sold in the RTO markets utilizing locational marginal pricing. FERC convened a series of public conferences during 2007 to address the issues surrounding electric competition. FERC issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) on Wholesale Competition in Regions with Organized Electric Markets on June 22, 2007. Exelon filed comments on September 14, 2007. On December 17, 2007, a number of advocacy groups filed comments requesting that the scope of the ANOPR be expanded to address the current structure and practices of the RTO administered markets, which the advocacy groups contend have led to unjust and unreasonable rates. The outcome of this FERC rulemaking process could significantly affect Generations results of operations. In addition, on June 21, 2007, FERC issued a Final Rule on Market Based Rates for Wholesale Sales of Electric Energy, Capacity and Ancillary Services by Public Utilities. FERC provided clarification to the Final Rule on December 14, 2007. The Final Rule made a number of changes in FERCs market based rate analysis and requires a market power update filing by Generation, ComEd and PECO, which was made on January 14, 2008. The application of the Final Rule is not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations, although the longer term impact will depend on how FERC applies the Final Rule as its enforcement of the rule matures with time and experience. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to competition in the energy industry. Generations financial performance depends in part on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. The new generating facilities of these market entrants may be more efficient than Generations facilities. Additionally, the introduction of new technologies could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. Generations financial growth depends in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. As the demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and the Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Further, construction of new generating 48 Table of Contents facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Nuclear Operations Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 24 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 24 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the AmerGen plants and the co owned plants, was 9 in 2007 with 12 planned for 2008. The projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation will increase in 2008 compared to 2007 by approximately $62 million as Generation continues to invest in equipment upgrades to ensure safe reliable operations and as a result of two additional planned refueling outages at nuclear plants operated by Generation in 2008 compared to 2007. Total operating and maintenance expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation are expected to increase by approximately $99 million in 2008 compared to 2007 as a result of inflationary cost increases as well as the aforementioned two additional planned refueling outages in 2008 compared to 2007. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may adversely affect Generations ability to fully decommission the nuclear units. 49 Table of Contents Environmental risk. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations establishing a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing generating stations requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Oyster Creek, Salem or other Exelon power plants, this could result in material costs of compliance. In addition, the amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to operate the plant after the 316(b) matter is ultimately resolved. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. Should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by others, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plants output, Generation is dependent on the operational performance of the co owner operator. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generations, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $10.76 billion limit for a single incident. 50 Table of Contents Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations portion of the NEIL distribution for 2007 was $43 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Operations. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of current licensed life. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to provide other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Other Operating Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal and natural gas to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained through long term uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Coal is procured for coal fired plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. Natural gas is procured for gas fired plants through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. It is not possible to predict the ultimate cost or availability of these commodities. Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. A significant portion of Generations power portfolio is used to provide power under a long term PPA with PECO and supplier forward contracts with ComEd. To the extent portions of the portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent its portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of ComEd and PECO under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity under long term and short term contracts in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation 51 Table of Contents compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation that are not used to meet its long term supply commitments, including its commitments to ComEd and PECO, are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity likely reflects the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, energy or fuel will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell power in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, the retail businesses subject Generation to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities that serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Risk of Credit Downgrades. Generations trading business is required to meet credit quality standards. If Generation were to lose its investment grade credit rating or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. If Generation had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2007, it would have been required to provide approximately $830 million in collateral. Immature Markets. The wholesale spot markets are evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. 52 Table of Contents Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. Power Teams power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generations business is capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. For example, Generation is considering building a new nuclear plant in southeast Texas and plans to expend substantial resources to the evaluation, development and permitting of the project, site acquisition and long lead procurement; substantial additional resources would be required for the construction of the plant if a decision is made to build. Achieving the intended benefits of a large capital project of this type is subject to a number of uncertainties. Generations results of operations could be adversely affected if Generation were unable to effectively manage its capital projects. ComEd Exelons and ComEds goodwill may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. Exelon and ComEd both had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2007 in connection with the PECO/Unicom merger. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, such as the impairments recorded during 2006 and 2005, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. There is a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at ComEd, and at Exelon, in 2008 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, market prices for power, results of ComEds rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results but will have no impact to either Exelons or ComEds cash flows. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. 53 Table of Contents PECO PECO could be subject to higher transmission operating costs in the future as a result of PJMs regional transmission expansion plan (RTEP) and the rate design between PJM and MISO. In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJMs RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint and that costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. FERC stated that PJMs stakeholders should develop a standard method for allocating costs of new transmission facilities lower than 500 kV. PECO cannot estimate the longer term impact on its results of operations and cash flows because of the uncertainties relating to what new facilities will be built and the cost of building those facilities. In 2007, PECO and almost all other transmission owners in PJM and the Midwest ISO (MISO), as directed by a FERC order issued in 2004, filed with FERC to continue the existing transmission rate design between PJM and MISO. Other transmission owners and certain other parties have filed protests urging FERC to reject the filing. On January 31, 2008, FERC accepted the filing. An additional complaint was filed asking FERC to substitute a rate design that allocates the costs of all existing and new transmission facilities at 345 kV and above across PJM and MISO. On January 31, 2008, FERC denied the complaint. PECO cannot predict the outcome of any possible requests for rehearing or appeals of these proceedings nor the impact that the ultimate rate design will have on its transmission operating costs. PECO may be subject to the risk of a legislative or regulatorily mandated requirement to purchase Philadelphia Gas Works (PGW). PGW is a municipal gas utility owned by the City of Philadelphia that provides service almost exclusively within Philadelphia. A Pennsylvania state legislator submitted legislation to the Pennsylvania General Assembly that would provide the PAPUC with the authority to investigate PGWs fitness to provide gas service and, if deemed unfit, to require a qualified public utility to purchase PGWs gas assets. If such legislation is enacted, PECO, with a natural gas service territory contiguous to and an electric service territory that includes Philadelphia, could be subject to a proceeding in which efforts are made to require PECO to purchase PGWs gas assets. While PECO believes that such a forced purchase would be unlawful, such a proceeding could expose PECO potentially to significant economic and political risk. The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers may decrease PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Gas rates charged to customers are comprised primarily of purchased natural gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to PECO, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to PECO. Purchased natural gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customers bill and may be adjusted quarterly, are designed for PECO to recover the cost of the natural gas commodity and pipeline transportation and storage services that PECO procures to service its customers. PECOs cash flows can be impacted by differences between the time period when natural gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. When purchased natural gas cost charges increase substantially reflecting higher natural gas procurement costs incurred by PECO, customer usage may decrease, resulting in lower distribution charges and lower profit margins for PECO. In addition, increased purchased natural gas cost charges to customers also may result in increased bad debt expense from an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances. 54 Table of Contents ComEd and PECO The following risk factors separately apply to both ComEd and PECO as further noted below. Rising rates or the expectation of rising rates can stimulate legislative or regulatory action aimed at restricting or controlling those rate increases, which can create uncertainty affecting planning, costs and results of operations. Large increases in utility rates, such as may follow a period of frozen or capped rates, can generate pressure on legislators and regulators to take steps to control those rates. Such efforts can include some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. The public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues, and the ability to recover costs. Such uncertainty restricts flexibility and resources, given the need to plan and ensure available financial resources. Such uncertainty also affects the costs of doing business. Such costs may be reflected in reduced liquidity, as suppliers tighten payment terms, and increased costs of financing, as lenders demand increased compensation or collateral security to accept such risks. Legislators or regulators may respond to current or anticipated increases in utility rates by enacting laws or regulations aimed at restricting or controlling those rates that may adversely affect the utilitys ability to recover its costs, maintain adequate liquidity and address capital requirements. Legislators and regulators may focus on immediate forms of rate relief, such as rate increase moderation or freezes and may pursue initiatives that affect the manner in which utilities procure energy, recover costs or interact with customers. Those measures could include the imposition or continuation of rate caps, rate moderation, installation of smart metering technology, fees on consumption, and various measures promoting conservation, energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. Such measures may reduce revenues, increase operating costs and mandate initiatives requiring additional capital investments or changes in the way utilities conduct business. These initiatives can be accompanied by additional costs for which recovery may not be certain as well as incentives for compliance and penalties for noncompliance. Restrictions affecting rates and revenues, and the ability to recover costs, could affect liquidity and the ability to maintain reliable delivery systems and make capital improvements. Inadequate cost recovery could lead to lowered credit ratings, reduced access to capital markets, increased financing costs, lower flexibility due to constrained financial resources, collateral security requirements, and possible bankruptcy. Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including rates for the procurement of electricity and the recovery of MGP remediation costs. 55 Table of Contents In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are typically subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators for establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations, in the case of ComEd, for ComEds customers with demand of 100kW or less who have not chosen a competitive electric generation supplier and, for a limited period, for certain customers with higher demands, and, in the case of PECO, for all PECO customers, to provide electricity service to certain groups of customers in its service area who choose to obtain their electricity from the utility. The ultimate outcome of these regulatory actions will have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, lengthy proceedings and time delays in implementing new rates relative to when costs are actually incurred could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. The impact of not meeting the criteria of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71) could be material to ComEd and PECO. As of December 31, 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd, and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2007, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $2.9 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2007, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $3.0 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against other comprehensive income (before taxes) of up to $1.2 billion and $74 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which would be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities also could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 1, 4, 8 and 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Increases in customer rates and the impact of other economic downturns may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer balances for ComEd and PECO. Future recoverability of any additional uncollectible customer balances is subject to regulatory proceedings. ComEds customer rates for delivery service and procurement of electricity increased in 2007 with the end of the legislatively mandated transition and rate freeze period in Illinois. The Settlement 56 Table of Contents Legislation prohibits utilities from terminating electric service to an Illinois residential space heating customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. With respect to PECO, its gas rates may change quarterly based on market conditions which may lead to higher prices. Additionally, PECOs electric rates have increased in recent years as permitted under the 1998 restructuring settlement and the related PECO/Unicom Merger Settlement Agreements. Due to increased rates, limitations on service termination, and the future collection of deferred balances, ComEd and PECO may experience a greater amount of uncollectible customer balances. Mandatory energy conservation and RPS legislation could negatively affect the costs and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. Federal legislation mandating specific energy conservation measures or changes to existing laws requiring the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO if timely recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for renewable energy credits and purchased power as well as significant increases in capital expenditures. There is no certainty that ComEd or PECO would be permitted sufficient or timely recovery of related costs in rates. Furthermore, energy conservation measures could lead to a decline in energy consumption and ultimately the revenues of ComEd and PECO. ComEd and PECO will continue to monitor RPS and energy conservation developments at the Federal and state levels. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the transmission and delivery of electricity and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. The effects of weather and the related impact on electricity and gas usage may decrease ComEds and PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter 57 Table of Contents heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd and PECO typically report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs operations. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. ComEds and PECOs results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if they are unable to effectively manage their own respective capital projects, if they are unable to raise the necessary capital, or if they do not receive full recovery of their own respective capital costs through future regulatory proceedings in a timely manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2007: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Nuclear (d) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,065 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,740 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,295 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,139 (e) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,303 (e) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 981 (e) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,969 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (e) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Intermediate 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Intermediate 588 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 (continued on next page) 58 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 870 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 395 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (e) Mountain Creek 6, 7 Dallas, TX 2 Gas Peaking 240 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 565 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (e) 4,734 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 386 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 29 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 152 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 116 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 13 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 296 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,449 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (e) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 3 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 14 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 572 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 1,642 Total 124 24,808 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of low efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels and pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. 59 Table of Contents (c) For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (d) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (e) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities, level of water supplies and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ComEd ComEds electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that ComEd owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. ComEd believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements, licenses and franchise rights; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution ComEds higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2007 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 765,000 90 345,000 2,621 138,000 2,872 69,000 149 ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,335 circuit miles of overhead lines and 35,326 cable miles of underground lines. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. ComEd maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd. 60 Table of Contents PECO PECOs electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that PECO owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. PECO believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements and licenses; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution PECOs higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2007 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 500,000 188 (a) 230,000 541 138,000 156 69,000 182 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,933 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,260 cable miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs natural gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2007: Pipeline Miles Transportation 31 Distribution 6,654 Service piping 5,472 Total 12,157 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first and refunding mortgage bonds are issued. PECO maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of PECO. 61 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 62 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2008, there were 661,220,392 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 143,410 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2007 2006 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 86.83 $ 82.60 $ 79.38 $ 72.31 $ 63.62 $ 61.98 $ 58.86 $ 59.90 Low price 73.76 64.73 68.67 58.74 57.83 56.74 51.13 52.79 Close 81.64 75.36 72.60 68.71 61.89 60.54 56.83 52.90 Dividends 0.440 0.440 0.440 0.440 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 The attached table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Exelon of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 1 October 31, 2007 6,151 $ 76.41 (b ) November 1 November 30, 2007 6,711 82.31 (b ) Total 12,862 79.49 (b ) (a) Shares other than those purchased as a part of a publicly announced plan primarily represent restricted shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares. (b) In April 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program that allows Exelon to repurchase shares of its common stock on a periodic basis in the open market. The share repurchase program is intended to mitigate, in part, the dilutive effect of shares issued under Exelons employee stock option plan and Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The aggregate shares of common stock repurchased pursuant to the program cannot exceed the economic benefit received after January 1, 2004 due to stock option exercises and share purchases pursuant to Exelons ESPP. The economic benefit consists of direct cash proceeds from purchases of stock and tax benefits associated with exercises of stock options. The 2004 share repurchase program has no specified limit and no specified termination date. In addition, on August 31, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $1.25 billion of Exelons outstanding common stock. As part of its value return policy, Exelon uses share repurchases from time to time to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. The related accelerated share repurchase agreement includes a pricing collar, which establishes a minimum and maximum number of shares that can be repurchased. On December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500 million of Exelons outstanding common stock. See Note 17 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons share repurchase programs. 63 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below illustrates a five year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Exelon Corporation common stock, as compared with the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Utility Index for the period 2002 through 2007. This performance chart assumes: $100 invested on December 31, 2002 in Exelon Corporation common stock, in the S&P 500 Stock Index and in the S&P Utility Index; and All dividends are reinvested. Generation As of January 31, 2008, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. ComEd As of January 31, 2008, there were outstanding 127,016,519 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At January 31, 2008, in addition to Exelon, there were 269 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. 64 Table of Contents PECO As of January 31, 2008, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. While these restrictions may limit the absolute amount of dividends that a particular subsidiary may pay, Exelon does not believe these limitations are materially limiting because, under these limitations, the subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends sufficient to meet Exelons actual cash needs. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing II and ComEd Financing III (the Financing Trusts) that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event 65 Table of Contents that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to the Financing Trusts; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of the Financing Trusts; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2007, such capital was $2.8 billion and amounted to about 32 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PECO Energy Capital, L.P. (PEC L.P.) or PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. At December 31, 2007, Exelon had retained earnings of $4.9 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $1,429 million, ComEds retained deficit of $(29) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1,639) million, partially offset by $1,610 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends and PECOs retained earnings of $548 million. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2007 and 2006: 2007 2006 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2007 2006 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 261 $ 1,431 $ 370 $ 295 $ 165 $ 122 $ 157 $ 165 PECO 108 178 121 155 134 117 135 116 On December 19, 2007, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2008. This dividend declaration was made by the Exelon Board of Directors under a value return policy that established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. The value return policy contemplates the use of share repurchases from time to time, when authorized by the Board of Directors, to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. During 2007 and 2006, ComEd did not pay a dividend. This decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined 66 Table of Contents Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend after 2007. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 18,916 $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 15,148 Operating income 4,668 3,521 2,724 3,499 2,409 Income from continuing operations $ 2,726 $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 1,870 $ 892 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 10 2 14 (29 ) (99 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,736 1,592 965 1,841 793 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (42 ) 23 112 Net income (a), (b) $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 1,864 $ 905 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 4.03 $ 2.35 $ 1.40 $ 2.79 $ 1.36 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 0.02 (0.04 ) (0.15 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (0.06 ) 0.03 0.17 Net income $ 4.05 $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ 1.38 Dividends per common share $ 1.76 $ 1.60 $ 1.60 $ 1.26 $ 0.96 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 676 676 676 669 657 (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006; 2006 and 2005; and 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Change between 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. 67 Table of Contents December 31, in millions 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 5,051 $ 4,992 $ 4,637 $ 3,880 $ 4,524 Property, plant and equipment, net 24,153 22,775 21,981 21,482 20,630 Noncurrent regulatory assets 5,133 5,808 4,734 5,076 5,564 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,694 3,475 4,705 4,719 Other deferred debits and other assets 8,932 8,050 7,970 7,867 6,800 Total assets $ 45,894 $ 44,319 $ 42,797 $ 43,010 $ 42,237 Current liabilities $ 5,995 $ 5,795 $ 6,563 $ 4,836 $ 5,683 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 11,965 11,911 11,760 12,148 13,489 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,301 3,025 2,518 2,490 2,229 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 14,409 13,494 12,743 13,918 12,246 Minority interest 1 42 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 10,137 10,007 9,125 9,489 8,503 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 45,894 $ 44,319 $ 42,797 $ 43,010 $ 42,237 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charge of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. The results of operations for Generations retail business are not included in periods prior to 2004. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 8,135 Operating income (loss) 3,392 2,396 1,852 1,039 (115 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 2,025 $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 657 $ (241 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations 4 4 19 (16 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,029 1,407 1,128 641 (241 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (30 ) 32 108 Net income (loss) (a) $2,029 $1,407 $1,098 $673 $(133) (a) Change between 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. 68 Table of Contents December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,795 $ 3,433 $ 3,040 $ 2,321 $ 2,438 Property, plant and equipment, net 8,043 7,514 7,464 7,536 7,106 Deferred debits and other assets 8,216 7,962 7,220 6,581 5,105 Total assets $ 19,054 $ 18,909 $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 Current liabilities $ 2,446 $ 2,914 $ 3,400 $ 2,416 $ 3,553 Long term debt 2,513 1,778 1,788 2,583 1,649 Deferred credits and other liabilities 9,725 8,733 8,554 8,356 6,488 Minority interest 1 1 2 44 3 Members equity 4,369 5,483 3,980 3,039 2,956 Total liabilities and members equity $ 19,054 $ 18,909 $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 5,814 Operating income (loss) 512 555 (12 ) 1,617 1,567 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (676 ) $ 676 $ 702 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (9 ) 5 Net income (loss) (a) $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ 707 (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006; 2006 and 2005 and 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,241 $ 1,007 $ 1,024 $ 1,196 $ 1,313 Property, plant and equipment, net 11,127 10,457 9,906 9,463 9,096 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,694 3,475 4,705 4,719 Noncurrent regulatory assets 503 532 280 240 326 Other deferred debits and other assets 3,880 3,084 2,806 2,077 2,837 Total assets $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 $ 18,291 Current liabilities $ 1,712 $ 1,600 $ 2,308 $ 1,764 $ 1,557 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 4,384 4,133 3,541 4,282 5,887 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,447 2,824 2,450 2,444 2,217 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 3,305 2,919 2,796 2,451 2,288 Shareholders equity 6,528 6,298 6,396 6,740 6,342 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 $ 18,291 69 Table of Contents (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,613 $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 4,388 Operating income 947 866 1,049 1,014 1,056 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 507 $ 441 $ 520 $ 455 $ 473 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (3 ) Net income $ 507 $ 441 $ 517 $ 455 $ 473 Net income on common stock $ 503 $ 437 $ 513 $ 452 $ 468 December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 800 $ 762 $ 795 $ 727 $ 659 Property, plant and equipment, net 4,842 4,651 4,471 4,329 4,256 Noncurrent regulatory assets 3,273 3,896 4,454 4,836 5,238 Other deferred debits and other assets 895 464 366 241 232 Total assets $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 $ 10,385 Current liabilities $ 1,516 $ 978 $ 936 $ 748 $ 676 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 2,866 3,784 4,143 4,628 5,239 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 250 151 68 46 12 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 3,068 3,051 3,235 3,313 3,442 Shareholders equity 2,110 1,809 1,704 1,398 1,016 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 $ 10,385 70 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon General Exelon is a utility services holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following operating segments: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Exelons corporate operations, some of which are performed through its business services subsidiary, BSC, provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $2,736 million in 2007 as compared to $1,592 million in 2006 and diluted earnings per average common share were $4.05 for 2007 as compared to $2.35 for 2006. The increase in net income was primarily due to the following: the impact of a $776 million impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher average margins on Generations wholesale market sales primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006; increased transmission revenues at ComEd; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased delivery volume, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line); gains realized on decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy; favorable income tax benefit associated with Exelons method of capitalizing overhead costs; and the impact of a charge in 2006 associated with the termination of the proposed merger with PSEG. 71 Table of Contents The factors driving the overall increase in net income were partially offset by the following: decreased energy margins (operating revenues net of purchased power expense) at ComEd due to the end of the regulatory transition period; increased mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; the impact of the Illinois Settlement Legislation described below; increased nuclear decommissioning related activity; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; increased amortization expense, primarily related to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; a charge associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP (Tenaska); and the impact of a benefit in 2006 of approximately $288 million to recover certain costs allowed by the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) rate orders. Financing Activities. During 2007, Exelon met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash as well as funds from external sources, including the capital markets, and through bank borrowings. During 2007, Generation, ComEd and PECO issued $746 million, $725 million and $175 million, respectively, of long term debt. In addition, during 2007, ComEd borrowed $370 million under its credit facilities and repaid all outstanding commercial paper. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Registrants debt and credit facilities. On September 4, 2007, Exelon entered into agreements with two investment banks to repurchase a total of $1.25 billion of Exelons common shares under an accelerated share repurchase arrangement. In September 2007, Exelon received 15.1 million shares in accordance with the accelerated share repurchase agreements, which were recorded as treasury stock, at cost, for $1.17 billion. On December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500 million of Exelons outstanding common stock. This new program is in addition to the $1.25 billion share repurchase executed in September 2007. See Note 17 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. On December 19, 2007, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on Exelons common stock. This dividend declaration was made by the Exelon Board of Directors under a value return policy that established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. The Registrants performed an assessment during the fourth quarter of 2007 to determine the impact, if any, of recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets. The Registrants believe that the fair value of their investments, their ability to access liquidity in the market at reasonable rates, their ability to dispose of assets or liabilities as needed to meet financial obligations, and their counterparties creditworthiness will not be significantly affected by the subprime credit crisis. Regulatory and Environmental Developments. The following significant regulatory and environmental developments occurred during 2007. See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Illinois Settlement Legislation and Related Proceedings In July 2007, ComEd and Generation were party to an agreement (Settlement) that concluded discussions of measures to address 72 Table of Contents concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois since the end of the rate freeze transition period on December 31, 2006. The Settlement did not include rate freeze, generation tax or other legislation that would be harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. Legislation implementing the settlement (Settlement Legislation) was signed into law in August 2007 by the Governor of Illinois. Under the Settlement Legislation, Illinois electric utilities, their affiliates, and generators of electricity in Illinois will make voluntary contributions of approximately $1 billion over a period of four years to programs that will provide rate relief to Illinois electricity customers and partial funding for the IPA. Generation and ComEd committed to contributing an aggregate of over $800 million to rate relief programs and funding for the IPA. ComEd continues to execute upon its $64 million rate relief package announced earlier in 2007 whereby contributions to rate relief programs of approximately $41 million were made in 2007. Generation will contribute an aggregate of $747 million, of which $435 million will be available to pay ComEd for rate relief programs for ComEd customers, and $307.5 million will be available for rate relief programs for customers of other Illinois utilities and $4.5 million will be available for partial funding of the IPA. ComEd, Generation, and the Attorney General of the State of Illinois (Illinois Attorney General) also entered into a release and settlement agreement releasing and dismissing with prejudice all litigation, claims and regulatory proceedings and appeals related to the procurement of power, including ICC and FERC proceedings. Additionally, in the event that legislation is enacted prior to August 1, 2011 that would freeze or reduce electric rates or impose a generation tax on any party to the Settlement, the Settlement provides for the contributors to the rate relief funds to terminate their funding commitments and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief. In addition to creating the IPA, the Settlement Legislation established a new competitive process that Illinois utilities will be required to use for the procurement of electricity supply resources and for the implementation of defined levels of cost effective renewable energy resources. The IPA will participate in the design of electricity supply portfolios for ComEd and will administer the new competitive process to procure the electricity supply resources and renewable energy resources identified in the supply portfolio plans, all under the oversight of the ICC. This process will take place for all future delivery periods with the exception of the delivery period starting in June 2008 in which a ComEd developed plan approved by the ICC would be administered. In October 2007, ComEd filed a petition with the ICC seeking approval of an initial procurement plan. The procurement plan and the spot market purchases discussed below will be used to secure power and other ancillary services for retail electric customers for the period June 2008 through May 2009. An ALJ issued a Proposed Order on December 11, 2007, approving virtually every aspect of the proposal. On December 19, 2007, the ICC approved the Proposed Order. In addition to the procurement plan, ComEd will purchase energy on the spot market to meet the needs of its customers. Additionally, to fulfill a requirement of the Settlement, ComEd and Generation entered into a five year financial swap contract whereby ComEd will pay fixed prices and Generation will pay a market price for a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirement. This contract effectively hedges a significant portion of ComEds spot market purchases. The financial swap contract became effective upon the enactment of the Settlement Legislation. The Settlement Legislation deems this arrangement prudent and thereby ensures that ComEd will be entitled to receive full recovery of its costs in its rates. The Settlement Legislation further requires that electric utilities use cost effective energy efficiency and demand response resources to meet incremental annual goals. In November 2007, ComEd filed its initial Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Plan with the ICC and expects an ICC order to be issued on the filing during the first quarter of 2008. This plan begins on June 1, 2008 and is designed to meet the Settlement Legislations energy efficiency 73 Table of Contents and demand response goals for an initial three year period, including reductions in delivered energy and in ComEds supply customers peak demand. If targets are met, ComEd customers would reduce their electricity consumption by a cumulative amount of approximately 1.2 million MWh at the end of the three years. Savings on customers bills is expected to pay for the cost of implementing the programs and produce additional net savings of more than $155 million over the lifetime of the programs. Once implemented, the programs would place ComEd among the top three utilities in the nation in terms of annual electricity savings achieved through energy efficiency. The Settlement Legislation also declared that the 400 kW and above customer classes of ComEd are competitive. On October 11, 2007, the ICC granted a request made by ComEd by declaring that customer classes with demands of 100 kW or greater but less than 400 kW are competitive, effective on November 11, 2007. Consequently, after the expiration of a three year transitional period, ComEd will have a POLR obligation only for those customers with demand of less than 100 kW who have not chosen a competitive electric generation supplier. Other provisions in the Settlement Legislation extend the ability of utilities to engage in divestiture and other restructuring transactions, after only having to make an informational filing at the ICC, and ensure that until at least June 30, 2022, the state will not prohibit an electric utility from maintaining its membership in a FERC approved regional transmission organization chosen by the utility. Illinois Procurement Proceedings On March 28, 2007 and March 30, 2007, class action suits were filed in Illinois state court against ComEd and Generation as well as the other suppliers in the Illinois procurement auction that occurred in September 2006. The suits claimed that the suppliers manipulated the auction and that the resulting wholesale prices were unlawfully high. On December 21, 2007, a United States District Court granted the defendants motions to dismiss both cases and the time to appeal that order has expired. Delivery Service Rate Case On October 17, 2007, ComEd filed a request with the ICC seeking approval to increase its delivery service rates to reflect its continued investment in delivery service assets since rates were last determined. If approved by the ICC, the total proposed increase of approximately $360 million in the net annual revenue requirement, which was based on a 2006 test year, would increase an average residential customer bill by approximately 7.7%. ICC proceedings relating to the proposed delivery service rates will take place over a period of up to eleven months. Transmission Rate Case On March 1, 2007, ComEd filed a request with FERC, seeking approval to increase the rate ComEd receives for transmission services. ComEd also requested incentive rate treatment for certain transmission projects. On June 5, 2007, FERC issued an order that conditionally approved ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate effective as of May 1, 2007, but subject to refund, hearing procedures and conditions. The order denied ComEds request for incentive rate treatment on investment in certain transmission projects and the inclusion of construction work in progress in rate base. On October 5, 2007, ComEd made a filing with FERC seeking approval of a settlement agreement reached on the case that had been announced by the settlement judge to FERC in September 2007. The settlement agreement is a comprehensive resolution of all issues in the proceeding, other than ComEds pending request for rehearing on incentive returns on new investment. The settlement agreement establishes the treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis and results in a first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement increase of approximately $93 million, or a $24 million reduction from the revenue requirement conditionally approved by FERC on June 5, 2007. FERC approved the settlement on January 16, 2008. Management believes that appropriate reserves 74 Table of Contents have been established for transmission revenues that will be refunded in accordance with the final settlement agreement. On January 18, 2008, FERC issued an order on rehearing that allowed a 1.5% adder to return on equity for ComEds largest transmission project and authorized the inclusion of 100% of construction work in progress in rate base for that project but rejected incentive treatment for any other project ComEd has pending. City of Chicago Settlement On December 21, 2007, ComEd entered into a settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (City) regarding a wide range of issues including components of its franchise agreement with the City and other matters. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, ComEd will make payments totaling $55 million to the City through 2012 so long as the City meets specified conditions contained in the settlement agreement. The first payment of $23 million was made in December 2007. The City has agreed not to challenge ComEds position in certain regulatory proceedings during the term of the Settlement Agreement, including, among others, ComEds delivery service rate case, the recent transmission rate case, and ComEds proposed revenue requirements in future rate cases when increases in the revenue requirement do not exceed specified increases in the Consumer Price Index. The City further agreed to allow ComEd to cancel various projects previously required under the franchise agreement with the City and to defer completion of other required projects. The settlement agreement also settles other disputes between ComEd and the City, including dismissing the Citys appeal of ComEds 2005 delivery rate case. ComEd and the City also agreed to establish a panel of ComEd and City representatives to evaluate opportunities to improve service reliability in the City. PECO AEPS Filing On March 19, 2007, PECO filed a request with PAPUC for approval to acquire and bank up to 450,000 non solar Tier I Alternative Energy Credits (equivalent to up to 240 MWs of electricity generated by wind) annually for a five year term in order to prepare for 2011, the first year of PECOs required compliance under the AEPS Act following the completion of its transition period. On July 16, 2007, the Pennsylvania legislature modified the previously proposed AEPS Act in HB 1203. The modification did not affect PECOs request for acquiring and banking Alternative Energy Credits or the proposed deferral of related costs. The PAPUC approved PECOs filing on December 20, 2007. Using an independent Request for Proposal (RFP) monitor, PECO will conduct an RFP process for alternative energy producers to submit bids to sell credits beginning in March 2008. Outlook for 2008 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: The Settlement Legislation is expected to provide ComEd with greater stability and certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to its customers with less risk that rate freeze or other harmful legislation will be pursued in the near term. The Settlement Legislation established a new competitive procurement model to be developed by the IPA, by which ComEd will procure its energy supply. ComEd has stabilized a portion of its costs of procurement pursuant to the five year financial swap contract with Generation. ComEd will be allowed to fully recover the costs of procuring energy, including the impacts of the financial swap contract, in its rates. In the event that legislation is enacted in the Illinois General Assembly prior to August 1, 2011 that freezes or reduces electric rates or imposes a generation tax, the Settlement Legislation permits ComEd and Generation, as contributors to certain rate relief programs, to terminate their funding commitments to such programs and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief. PECO was subject to electric rate caps on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 and is subject to caps on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. PECOs transmission and distribution rates will continue in effect until PECO files a rate case 75 Table of Contents or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. There are no current proceedings to do so. PECO is or will be involved in proceedings involving annual changes in its electric and gas universal service fund cost charges, its electric CTC/intangible transition charge reconciliation mechanism, its purchased gas cost rate, and its every five year nuclear decommissioning cost adjustment clause mechanism, all of which relate to PECOs recovery of the applicable costs. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2008 and 2009. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. Generation procures nuclear fuel assemblies through long term contracts for uranium concentrates and through long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Generation procures coal primarily through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with these commodity price exposures. The PPA between Generation and PECO expires at the end of 2010. Current market prices for electricity have increased significantly over the past few years due to the rise in natural gas and other fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates are below current wholesale energy market prices and Generations margins on sales in excess of PECOs requirements have improved historically. Generations ability to achieve those margins following the expiration of the PPA will partially depend on future wholesale market prices. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs to either further limit the GHG emissions from its operations or in procuring emission allowance credits. However, Exelon may benefit from stricter emission standards due to its significant nuclear capacity, which is not anticipated to be adversely affected by the proposed emission standards. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in the case of Massachusetts v. U. S. EPA holding that carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions are pollutants subject to regulation under the new motor vehicle provisions of the Clean Air Act. The case was remanded to the EPA for further rulemaking to determine whether GHG emissions may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, or in the alternative provide a reasonable explanation why GHG emissions should not be regulated. Possible outcomes from this decision include regulation of GHG emissions from manufacturing plants, including electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, under a new EPA rule, and Federal or state legislation. Exelon anticipates that it will be subject to the ongoing pressures of rising operating expenses due to increases in costs, such as medical benefits and rising payroll costs due to inflation. 76 Table of Contents Also, Exelon will continue to incur significant capital costs associated with its commitment to produce and deliver energy reliably to its customers. Increasing capital costs may include the price of uranium, which fuels the nuclear facilities, and continued capital investment in Exelons aging distribution infrastructure and generating facilities. Exelon is determined to operate its businesses responsibly and to appropriately manage its operating and capital costs while serving its customers and producing value for its shareholders. Generation pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize shareholder value, taking earnings, cash flow and financial risk into account. On September 29, 2006, Generation notified the NRC that Generation will begin the application process for a combined COL that would allow for the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas. The filing of the letter with the NRC launched a process that preserves for Exelon and Generation the option to develop a new nuclear plant in Texas without immediately committing to the full project. In order to continue preserving and assessing this option, Exelon and Generation have approved expenditures on the project of up to $100 million, which includes fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments and other costs for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. The development phase of the project is expected to extend into 2009, and funding beyond the $100 million commitment would be subject to extensive analysis. Generation has not made a decision to build a new nuclear plant at this time. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision to build is made are a workable solution to spent nuclear fuel disposal, broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant and assurances that a new plant using the new technology can be financially successful, which would entail economic analysis that would incorporate assessing construction and financing costs, production and other potential tax credits, and other key economic factors. Generation expects to submit the COL application to the NRC in 2008. On December 11, 2007, Generation announced that it will seek to accelerate the decommissioning of its Zion Station in Illinois more than a decade earlier than originally planned. Generation has contracted with EnergySolutions, Inc. to dismantle the nuclear plant, which closed in 1998. Completion of the arrangement is subject to the satisfaction of a number of closing conditions, including the receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. Additionally, the NRC must approve the arrangement, and this decision is not expected before the second half of 2008. Upon approval, the Zion Stations licenses and decommissioning funds would be transferred to EnergySolutions, Inc. During 2006, FERC issued its order approving PJMs settlement proposal related to its RPM to provide for a forward capacity auction using a demand curve and locational deliverability zones for capacity phased in over a several year period. FERCs adoption of the settlement proposal has had a favorable impact for owners of generation facilities, particularly for facilities located in constrained zones. PJMs RPM auctions took place in April 2007, July 2007, October 2007 and January 2008 and established prices for the period from June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2011. Subsequent auctions will take place 36 months ahead of the scheduled delivery year. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its opinion in a challenge to the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. By its action, the court invalidated compliance measures that the utility industry supported because they were cost effective and provided existing plants with needed flexibility in selecting the compliance option appropriate to its location and operations. The courts opinion has created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final compliance requirements. Several industry parties to the litigation sought review by the entire U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which was denied on July 5, 2007. On November 2, 2007, the industry parties filed a petition seeking review by the U.S. Supreme Court. The respondent environmental and state parties have until March 1, 2008 to respond to the petition. On July 9, 2007, the EPA formally suspended the Phase II rule due to the uncertainty about the specific 77 Table of Contents compliance requirements created by the Courts remand of significant provisions of the rule. Until the EPA finalizes the rule on remand (which could take several years), the state permitting agencies will continue the current practice of applying their best professional judgment to address impingement and entrainment requirements at plant cooling water intake structures. Due to this uncertainty, Generation cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the Phase II rule requirements will have on the operation of its generating facilities and its future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If the final rule, or interim state requirements under best professional judgment, has performance standards that require the reduction of cooling water intake flow at the plants consistent with closed loop cooling systems, then the impact on the operation of the facilities and Exelons and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be material. On May 10, 2007, after completion of a two year rule making process, the PAPUC adopted final default service regulations, an accompanying policy statement, and a price mitigation policy statement. The regulations allow for competitive procurement by distribution companies through auctions or Requests for Proposals, with full cost recovery and no retrospective prudence review. According to the policy statement, the PAPUC expects companies to procure power, on a customer class basis, using contracts of varying expiration dates, and prefers contracts with a duration of one year or less, except for contracts for compliance with the AEPS Act. The PAPUC also expects companies to reconcile costs and adjust rates at least quarterly for most customers, but hourly or monthly for larger energy users. The PAPUC believes this combination will stimulate competition, send market price signals and avoid price spikes following long periods of fixed, capped rates. The PAPUC also ordered the elimination of (1) declining block rates, while allowing rates to be phased out if the resulting rate increase is greater than 25%; and (2) demand charges for large customers, while entertaining requests to retain those charges on a case by case basis. Electric distribution companies, such as PECO, will be required to make their implementation filings a minimum of 12 months prior to the end of the generation rate cap period, which for PECO, expires December 31, 2010. The final default service regulations became effective on September 15, 2007. In Pennsylvania and other states where rate cap transition periods have ended or are approaching expiration, there is growing pressure from state regulators and elected officials to mitigate the potential impact of electricity price increases on retail customers. Such transition periods have ended for six Pennsylvania electric distribution companies and, in some instances, post transition electricity price increases occurred. In response to concerns about post transition rate increases in Pennsylvania, several measures have been either proposed or contemplated by various stakeholders. Certain legislators, for example, have suggested an extension of rate caps. Other measures previously proposed by the Pennsylvania Governor as part of his Energy Independence Strategy included, among other things: a phase in of increased generation rates after expiration of rate caps; installation of smart metering technology; permission for electric distribution companies to enter into long term contracts with large industrial customers; creation of a fee on electric consumption that would help fund an $850 million Energy Independence Fund designed to spur the development of a biofuels industry in the state as well as to promote the advancement of energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives; a requirement for electric distribution companies, such as PECO, to procure electricity for their default service customers after the end of their electric restructuring period (post 2010 for PECO), through a least cost portfolio approach, with preferences for conservation and renewable power and permit distribution companies to enter into long term procurement contracts to enable the construction of new generation. As of February 7, 2008, no portion of the Governors environmental agenda has been enacted into law. PECO cannot predict what measures, if any, will be introduced in the state legislature or become law in Pennsylvania, nor the disposition of measures in the Pennsylvania Governors Energy Independence Strategy. However, any legislation that requires PECO to sell electricity, 78 Table of Contents beginning in 2011, at prices that are below PECOs cost to procure and deliver electricity to customers or other legislation that would freeze rates or extend the rate cap beyond 2010 could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. On October 15, 2007, Generation entered into an agreement (Termination Agreement) with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Dominion Resources Inc., to terminate the Power Purchase Agreement dated as of April 17, 1996 (as amended, the PPA) between State Line and Generation relating to the State Line generating facility in Hammond, Indiana. Under the PPA, Generation controlled 515 MW of electric energy and capacity from the State Line facility. FERC approved the Termination Agreement on October 18, 2007. Further, the conditions to the effectiveness of the Termination Agreement were subsequently satisfied and Generation received a net cash payment from State Line of approximately $228 million, after adjustments, in consideration for the termination of the PPA and for the purchase of coal inventories on hand (and in transit) and other assets. As a result of the Termination Agreement, a negative net income impact to Generation of approximately $30 million to $35 million (after tax) per year is expected beginning in 2008 through the end of the original contract term in 2012. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies on a unit by unit basis to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at a minimum of every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation 79 Table of Contents factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, low level radioactive waste disposal and other costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternatives and timing scenarios on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% (high cost scenario) or minus 15% (low cost scenario) over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a low level radioactive waste landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a 20 year delay) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposal. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2007 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 313 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 113 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 147 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 226 Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a periodic basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or estimated amount of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill which relates to the acquisition of ComEd under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for 80 Table of Contents impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of the reporting unit. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In the assessment, Exelon and ComEd estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with scenarios reflecting managements plans and a resulting range of operating results and cash flows. The model includes an estimate of ComEds terminal value based on these expected cash flows and on an earnings multiple approach, which reflects the estimated value of comparable utility companies. Other significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit include ComEds capital structure, interest rates, utility sector market performance, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors. Changes in these variables or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of approximately 13% in expected discounted cash flows in ComEds 2007 annual assessment would have resulted in ComEd and Exelon failing step 1 of the impairment test. ComEd and Exelon would be required to perform step 2 of the impairment test to determine the amount of an impairment, if any. An impairment would require Exelon and ComEd to reduce both goodwill and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Investments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO had investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2007. Beginning in 2006, and in connection with the issuance of FASB Staff Position FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. Generation considers all nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments in an unrealized loss position to be other than temporarily impaired. Since the NRC sets limitations on Exelons and Generations ability to direct the management of the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments, Exelon and Generation do not have the ability to hold investments with unrealized losses through a recovery period and, accordingly, unrealized holding losses are recognized immediately, which are included in other, net in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their 81 Table of Contents estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of property, plant and equipment recorded and the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. The estimated service lives of the nuclear fuel generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel and hydroelectric generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. ComEd reviews its estimated service lives when circumstances, such as technological changes, warrant such a review. ComEds last depreciation study was performed in 2002. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. The impact of the new rates was not material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for essentially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees, except for those employees of Generations wholly owned subsidiary, AmerGen, who participate in the separate AmerGen sponsored defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement welfare benefit plan. See Note 15 Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under these plans involve various factors, including numerous assumptions and accounting elections. When determining the various assumptions that are required, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The benefit costs are affected by, among other things, the actual rate of return on plan assets, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment crediting rate, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs and the level of benefits provided to employees and retirees. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 8.75% for 2007 and 9.00% for 2006 and 2005. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement 82 Table of Contents benefit costs was 7.85%, 8.15% and 8.30% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The EROA is based on current and forecasted asset allocations as described in Note 15 Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A change in the strategy of the asset allocations could significantly impact the EROA and related costs. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the market related value (MRV) of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments that are to be made during the year. SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (SFAS No. 106) allow the MRV of plan assets to be either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. Exelon uses a calculated value when determining the MRV of the pension plan assets that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. This calculated value has the effect of stabilizing variability in assets to which Exelon applies that expected return. Exelon uses fair value when determining the MRV of the other postretirement benefit plan assets and the AmerGen pension plan assets. The discount rate for determining the pension benefit obligations was 6.20%, 5.90% and 5.60% at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The discount rate for determining the other postretirement benefit obligations was 6.20%, 5.85% and 5.60% at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of more than 400 Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end will be used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use a discount rate and EROA of 6.20% and 8.75%, respectively, for estimating its 2008 pension costs. Additionally, Exelon will use a discount rate and expected return on plan assets of 6.20% and 7.80%, respectively, for estimating its 2008 other postretirement benefit costs. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onPension Liability atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on2007Pension Cost Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on 2007PostretirementBenefit Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 648 $ 57 $ 207 $ 26 Decrease rate of EROA by 0.5% 47 7 83 Table of Contents Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens postretirement benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2007 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2007 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on2007Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase assumed health care cost trend by 1% $ 422 $ 48 Decrease assumed health care cost trend by 1% (349 ) (39 ) Extending the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2007 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2007 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on2007Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years $ 139 $ 18 The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement as allowed by SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs, transition obligations, and certain of its actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs over participants average remaining service period related to eligibility age, and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of defined pension plan participants was 13.0 years, 13.5 years and 13.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 6.9 years, 7.3 years and 7.5 years for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.7 years, 10.3 years and 10.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred or gains that are required to be returned to customers. Use of SFAS No. 71 is 84 Table of Contents applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their businesses, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2007, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $2.9 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that ComEd could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Similarly, at December 31, 2007, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $3.0 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that PECO could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a (before taxes) charge against other comprehensive income of up to $1.2 billion and $74 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The resolution of the above items and the impact on ComEds capital structure could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 4, 8 and 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that will ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of the appropriate regulatory process. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies, known circumstances specific to a particular matter, discussions held with the applicable regulatory body, and other factors. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual events, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has a five year financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013. PECO has entered into derivative gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. ComEd and PECO do not enter into 85 Table of Contents derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133) and related interpretations. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under SFAS No. 133 requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the liquidity of its market as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133 continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets and changes in interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133 could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium do not meet the definition of a derivative under SFAS No. 133 since they do not provide for net settlement and the uranium markets are not sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the cost or value of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period. For ComEds financial swap contract with Generation, ComEd records changes in the fair value of the swap as well as an offsetting regulatory asset or liability. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases or normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Normal purchases and sales are contracts where physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time, and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, the majority of these transactions have been designated as normal purchases or normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but on an accrual basis of accounting. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings. 86 Table of Contents Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a result of the Settlement reached in 2007, ComEd and Generation entered into a financial swap contract that has been designated as a cash flow hedge by Generation but has not been designated for hedge accounting by ComEd. The effect of the contract will be to cause Generation to pay market prices and ComEd to pay fixed prices for a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirement into 2013. In Exelons consolidated financial statements, all financial statement effects of the swap recorded by Generation and ComEd are eliminated. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. For options contracts, Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Normal Operations and Hedging Activities for further information regarding sensitivity analysis related to market price exposure. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants primarily use available market pricing curves. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Beginning January 1, 2007, the Registrants began accounting for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement in accordance with FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Prior to January 1, 2007, the Registrants estimated their uncertain income tax obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS No. 109), SFAS No. 5, and Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements a replacement of FASB Concepts Statement No. 3 (incorporating 87 Table of Contents an amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2) (CON 6). The Registrants recognize accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense or interest income in other income and deductions on their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Registrants also have non income tax obligations related to real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters that are outside the scope of FIN 48 and accounted for under SFAS No. 5 and CON 6. Accounting for tax positions requires judgments, including estimating reserves for potential uncertainties. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with FIN 48, SFAS No. 5, SFAS No. 109 and CON 6 as applicable, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on the liabilities and expenses in their financial statements. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon and Generation have a reserve for asbestos related bodily injury claims for open claims presented to Generation as of December 31, 2007 and for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030 based on actuarial assumptions and analysis. Exelons 88 Table of Contents and Generations management each determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims beyond 2030 based on the historical claims data available and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating the future losses, management made various assumptions, including but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that relate to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelon obtains periodic updates of the estimate of future losses. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon historical experience and actuarial studies. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. These estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Generations revenue from service agreements is dependent upon when the services are rendered. Service agreements representing a cost recovery arrangement are presented gross within revenues for the amounts due from the party receiving the service, and the costs associated with providing the service are presented within operating and maintenance expenses. The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of probable losses on the accounts receivable balances. The allowance is based on known troubled accounts, historical experience and other currently available evidence. For ComEd and PECO, customer accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. Customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory guidelines. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories and are prohibited from terminating electric service to certain residential customers due to nonpayment during certain months of the year. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in 89 Table of Contents prices as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would need to make adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts for the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. ComEds and PECOs allowance for uncollectible accounts expense increased by $25 million and $13 million, respectively, in 2007 as compared to 2006. These increases resulted from a change in collectibility assumptions in response to changes in the customer payment patterns, changes in customer prices, changes in termination practices and certain changes in business and economic conditions. To the extent that actual collectibility differs from managements estimates by 5%, the after tax impact would be higher or lower by an estimated $4 million, $2 million, $2 million and less than $1 million for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. See ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the rollforwards of allowance for uncollectible accounts. Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Results of Operations Exelon 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 18,916 $ 15,655 $ 3,261 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 7,642 5,232 (2,410 ) Operating and maintenance 4,289 3,868 (421 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 1,520 1,487 (33 ) Taxes other than income 797 771 (26 ) Total operating expenses 14,248 12,134 (2,114 ) Operating income 4,668 3,521 1,147 Other income and deductions Interest expense (647 ) (616 ) (31 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (203 ) (264 ) 61 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (106 ) (111 ) 5 Other, net 460 266 194 Total other income and deductions (496 ) (725 ) 229 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 4,172 2,796 1,376 Income taxes 1,446 1,206 (240 ) Income from continuing operations 2,726 1,590 1,136 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 10 2 8 Net income $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.05 $ 2.35 $ 1.70 90 Table of Contents Net Income. Exelons net income for 2007 increased due to the impact of a $776 million impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher average margins on Generations wholesale market sales primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006; increased nuclear output at Generation reflecting fewer outage days; increased transmission revenues at ComEd; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased delivery volume, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; decreased nuclear refueling outage costs; incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; gains realized on decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy; favorable income tax benefit associated with Exelons method of capitalizing overhead costs; increased earnings associated with synthetic fuel producing facilities; the reduction in the reserve related to the successful PURTA tax appeal at PECO; and a charge in 2006 associated with the termination of the proposed merger with PSEG. These increases were partially offset by decreased energy margins at ComEd due to the end of the regulatory transition period; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; the impact of the Settlement; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the AmerGen nuclear plants; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; increased amortization expense related to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO; costs associated with the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas; benefits in 2006 of approximately $288 million to recover certain costs by the ICC rate orders; and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation resulting from higher volumes of generation sold to the market at higher prices as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; the impact of rate changes and mix at ComEd due to the end of the rate freeze and the implementation of market based rates for electricity; increased transmission revenues at ComEd resulting from the 2007 transmission rate case; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; higher delivery volumes, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; and authorized electric generation rate increases under the 1998 restructuring agreement at PECO. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the Settlement; more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; costs associated with ComEds settlement agreement with the City of Chicago; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased due to higher market energy prices; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to a contract with Tenaska; higher prices for electricity purchased by ComEd; and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply for 2007 and 2006. The increases in purchase power and fuel expense were partially offset by a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under its supplier forward contracts from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. 91 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the AmerGen nuclear plants; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; new nuclear site development costs for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas; increased tax consulting fees; and benefits of $201 million recorded at ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate orders. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006; incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; and a charge recorded in 2006 of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the now terminated proposed merger with PSEG. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2006, ComEd recorded a $776 million impairment charge associated with its goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service across Exelon. These increases were partially offset by lower amortization related to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to an increase in utility taxes resulting from higher utility revenues at PECO and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in the reserve related to the successful PURTA tax appeal at PECO. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects interest income related to the favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; a gain related to the sale of investments by Generation; income and gains associated with nuclear decommissioning trust funds, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy; benefits of $87 million recorded by ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate order; and earnings associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 34.7% for 2007 compared to 43.1% for 2006. The 2007 rate decreased, as compared with 2006, primarily due to ComEds non deductible goodwill impairment charge in 2006 which increased the rate by 9.7% and a decrease of state tax expense in 2007 of 1.5% due to a tax restructuring to allow utilization of separate company losses for state income tax purposes, partially offset by a reduction in synthetic fuel credits of 1.7% in 2007 caused by an increase in the phase out due to higher oil prices, and other changes amounting to 1.1%. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates and discussion on the investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe Energies, Inc (Sithe). In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Exelon Enterprises Company, LLC (Enterprises). Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. 92 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2007 and 2006 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 2,025 $ 1,403 $ 622 ComEd 165 (112 ) 277 PECO 507 441 66 Other (a) 29 (142 ) 171 Total $ 2,726 $ 1,590 $ 1,136 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 2,029 $ 1,407 $ 622 ComEd 165 (112 ) 277 PECO 507 441 66 Other (a) 35 (144 ) 179 Total $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 93 Table of Contents Results of Operations Generation 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 1,606 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 4,451 3,978 (473 ) Operating and maintenance 2,454 2,305 (149 ) Depreciation and amortization 267 279 12 Taxes other than income 185 185 Total operating expenses 7,357 6,747 (610 ) Operating income 3,392 2,396 996 Other income and deductions Interest expense (161 ) (159 ) (2 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates 1 (9 ) 10 Other, net 155 41 114 Total other income and deductions (5 ) (127 ) 122 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,387 2,269 1,118 Income taxes 1,362 866 (496 ) Income from continuing operations 2,025 1,403 622 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 4 4 Income from discontinued operations 4 4 Net income $ 2,029 $ 1,407 $ 622 Net Income. Generations net income for 2007 compared to 2006 increased primarily due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, more than offsetting inflationary and other cost pressures, a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in the nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the AmerGen nuclear plants and costs associated with the new nuclear plant COL application. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased due to higher average margins primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006, the contractual increase in the prices associated with Generations PPA with PECO, the termination of the State Line PPA and a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007, partially offset by amounts incurred in conjunction with the Settlement, net mark to market losses on derivative activities and the execution of the Georgia Power PPA. In addition to these impacts, Generations net income for 2007 included (all after tax) gains of $38 million related to changes in Generations investment strategy with the decommissioning trust fund investments, a gain on the sale of investments of $11 million and earnings of $4 million associated with the settlement of a tax matter related to Generations previous investment in Sithe. Operating Revenues. For 2007 and 2006, Generations revenues were as follows: Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,537 $ 4,674 $ (1,137 ) (24.3 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 6,834 3,640 3,194 87.7 % Total energy sales revenue 10,371 8,314 2,057 24.7 % Retail gas sales 449 540 (91 ) (16.9 )% Trading portfolio 43 14 29 207.1 % Other revenue (a) (114 ) 275 (389 ) (141.4 )% Total revenue $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 1,606 17.6 % (a) Includes amounts incurred for the Settlement, income associated with the termination of the State Line PPA, revenues relating to fossil fuel sales and operating service agreements, and decommissioning revenue from PECO during 2007. Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales and operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO during 2006. 94 Table of Contents Sales (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 64,406 119,354 (54,948 ) (46.0 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 125,244 71,326 53,918 75.6 % Total sales 189,650 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% Trading volumes of 20,323 GWhs and 31,692 GWhs for 2007 and 2006, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. The changes in Generations electric sales to affiliates for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Electric sales to affiliates Price Volume Increase(decrease) ComEd $ 650 $ (2,035 ) $ (1,385 ) PECO 169 79 248 Total $ 819 $ (1,956 ) $ (1,137 ) In the ComEd territories, decreased volumes were the result of the expiration of Generations PPA with ComEd effective December 31, 2006. The decrease was partially offset by higher prices received by Generation following the expiration of the PPA, under which Generation was receiving below market rates. With the expiration of the PPA, Generation is now receiving higher prices from ComEd under the forward supply contracts. In the PECO territories, higher prices were the result of a scheduled electric generation rate increase that took effect January 1, 2007. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Volume $ 2,782 Price 412 Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 3,194 The increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily the result of higher volumes of generation sold to the market as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales decreased $91 million for 2007 as compared to 2006, of which $53 million of the decrease was due to lower volumes as a result of lower demand and $38 million was due to lower realized prices. Other revenues. The decrease in other revenues in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to a $408 million decrease for amounts recorded related to the Settlement, a decrease of $86 million due to the cessation of a tolling agreement and a $66 million decrease related to the termination of decommissioning collections from ComEd in accordance with the terms and conditions of the ICC order which only permitted such collections through December 31, 2006, partially offset by income of $223 million related to the termination of the State Line PPA. Additionally, a $40 million decrease in other revenues was attributable to the sale of Termoel&eacute;ctrica del Golfo (TEG) and Termoel&eacute;ctrica Pe&ntilde;oles (TEP) on February 9, 2007 and the resulting absence of revenue thereafter. 95 Table of Contents Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 140,359 139,610 749 0.5 % Purchases non trading portfolio 38,021 38,297 (276 ) (0.7 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 11,270 12,773 (1,503 ) (11.8 )% Total supply 189,650 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The following table presents changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2007 compared to 2006. Generation considers the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense as a useful measure to analyze the profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. (in millions) Price Volume Increase(Decrease) Purchased power costs (a) $ 236 $ (47 ) $ 189 Generation costs (b) 2 (5 ) (3 ) Fuel resale costs (56 ) (38 ) (94 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. 275 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 367 (a) Excludes the net impact of $119 million loss recorded in 2007 associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska. (b) Excludes the net impact of a $13 million one time settlement with the Department of Energy recorded in 2006 for uranium enrichment services. n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power cost includes all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to lower volumes needed to supply ComEd as a result of the expiration of the PPA at December 31, 2006. Generation incurred overall higher prices for purchased power, partially offset by a decrease of $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in 2007. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel cost for internally generated energy. Generation costs were relatively flat in 2007, as compared to 2006. The decrease in volume of $5 million was primarily due to lower fossil and hydroelectric generation, partially offset by higher nuclear generation. Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs for 2007 as compared to 2006 consisted of overall lower prices resulting in a decrease of $56 million. Additionally, a decrease of $38 million was the result of lower volumes caused by lower demand. Mark to market. Mark to market losses on power derivative activities were $253 million in 2007 compared to gains of $180 million in 2006. Mark to market gains on fuel derivative activities were $81 million in 2007 compared to losses of $77 million in 2006. 96 Table of Contents The following table presents average electric revenues, supply costs and margins per MWh of electricity sold during 2007, as compared to 2006. As denoted in the table, average electric margins are defined as average electric revenues less average electric supply costs. Generation considers average electric margins useful measures to analyze the change in profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these margins may not be a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. ($/MWh) 2007 2006 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 54.90 $ 39.16 40.2 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 54.59 51.03 7.0 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 54.70 43.60 25.5 % Average electric supply cost (a)(b) excluding the trading portfolio $ 20.44 $ 18.02 13.4 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 34.26 $ 25.58 33.9 % (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. (b) Excludes the net impact of the $119 million loss related to the execution of the Georgia Power PPA and costs related to the termination of the State Line PPA during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007. The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2007 as compared to 2006. As demonstrated in the table, nuclear fleet capacity factor is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time and its output if the plant had operated at full capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one (1) MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet production between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures may not be a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2007 2006 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 94.5 % 93.9 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 14.46 $ 13.85 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The nuclear fleet capacity factor increased primarily due to fewer outage days during 2007 compared to 2006. For 2007 and 2006, refueling outage days totaled 195 and 237, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 59 and 71, respectively. The higher number of net MWhs generated and lower costs due to fewer planned refueling outage days were offset by higher costs for labor, nuclear fuel, NRC reactor fees, security costs and material condition work, resulting in an increase in the production cost per MWh for 2007 as compared to 2006. 97 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Payroll, pension and benefit costs $ 85 New nuclear site development costs 49 Decommissioning related activities 40 TEG and TEP related expenses (39 ) Nuclear refueling outage costs including the co owned Salem plant (32 ) Contractor expenses 24 Corporate allocations 14 Other 8 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 149 The $85 million increase in payroll, pension and benefit costs reflected the impact of inflation as well as an increase in various direct fringe costs. The $49 million increase in new nuclear site development costs was due to costs incurred for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas, including fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. The $40 million increase in nuclear decommissioning related activities was primarily associated with the recognition of a credit of $29 million, compared to a credit of $149 million recognized in 2006, representing reductions in the asset retirement obligation in excess of the asset retirement cost balance for the AmerGen units. Additionally, decommissioning related activities decreased by $66 million resulting from the termination of revenue collections on December 31, 2006 from ComEd, which likewise no longer required an offset through operating and maintenance expense, and decreased by $14 million due to the offset of certain income taxes associated with decommission related activity. The $39 million decrease in expenses related to TEG and TEP was due to the sale of the investment in 2007. The $32 million decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs was associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006. The $24 million increase in contractor expense was primarily related to staff augmentation and maintenance work at the nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric plants. The $14 million increase in corporate support service costs reflected an increase in a variety of BSC services allocated to Generation, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology and supply management services. Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the reassessment of the useful lives, for accounting purposes, of several fossil facilities and the write off of certain asset retirement costs in 2006. Interest Expense. The increase in net interest expense for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily attributable to an increase in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of the FIN 48 tax interest calculation and an increase in interest expense related to the bond issuance during the third quarter of 2007, partially offset by an interest payment accrued in 2006 for the settlement of a tax matter, a decline in the amount of commercial paper that was outstanding and an increase in average cash on hand balances during 2007 compared to 2006. 98 Table of Contents Other, Net. The increase in other, net in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects a gain on sale of investments recognized in 2007 and income and gains associated with nuclear decommissioning trust funds, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective January 1, 2008, the utilization of the fair value option under SFAS No. 159 for nuclear decommissioning trust funds will allow Generation to recognize unrealized gains, which will be included in other, net in Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact of adoption of SFAS No. 159. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective tax rate was 40.2% for 2007 compared to 38.2% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was attributable to an increase in deferred tax expense associated with the generation portion of ComEds research and development settlement as well as ComEds and PECOs application of the indirect cost capitalization method settlement guidelines recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, realized gains recognized in the fourth quarter by the qualified nuclear decommissioning trusts also contributed to the increase in the effective tax rate. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe have been presented as discontinued operations within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Generations Consolidated Statement of Income for 2007 reflects a $4 million (after tax) gain on the disposal of discontinued operations related primarily to Sithe, resulting from a settlement agreement between a subsidiary of Sithe, the Pennsylvania Attorney Generals Office and the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue regarding a previously disputed tax position asserted for the 2000 tax year. Generations Consolidated Statement of Income and Comprehensive Income for 2006 reflects a $4 million (after tax) gain on disposal of discontinued operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. Results of Operations ComEd 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 3 Purchased power expense 3,747 3,292 (455 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense 2,357 2,809 (452 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,091 745 (346 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 440 430 (10 ) Taxes other than income 314 303 (11 ) Total other operating expenses 1,845 2,254 409 Operating income 512 555 (43 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (318 ) (308 ) (10 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (7 ) (10 ) 3 Other, net 58 96 (38 ) Total other income and deductions (267 ) (222 ) (45 ) Income before income taxes 245 333 (88 ) Income taxes 80 445 365 Net income (loss) $ 165 $ (112 ) $ 277 99 Table of Contents Net Income. As more fully described below, ComEds net income (loss) for 2007 compared to 2006 reflected the impact of a goodwill impairment charge in 2006 partially offset by higher purchased power expense, higher operating and maintenance expense, and the impacts of the 2006 benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which it is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 or additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to help reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. In 2007, ComEd incurred increased costs associated with transitioning from the rate freeze period, including implementing the rate relief programs. Operating Revenues and Purchased Power Expense. ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. ComEd has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense RevenueNet ofPurchasedPowerExpense Rate changes and mix $ 748 $ 1,346 $ (598 ) Rate Relief Program (33 ) (33 ) Transmission 115 (17 ) 132 Weather 141 83 58 Delivery volume 20 20 Customer choice (917 ) (917 ) Other (71 ) (40 ) (31 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 3 $ 455 $ (452 ) Rate changes and mix Revenue. The increase in revenue related to rate changes and mix primarily reflects the end of the rate freeze and the implementation of market based rates for electricity and the impact of the distribution rate increase. In 2006, most customers were charged a bundled rate that included distribution, transmission and the cost of electricity. Additionally, under Illinois law, no CTCs are permitted to be collected after 2006. As of January 2007, ComEd began billing customers on an 100 Table of Contents unbundled basis, which includes separate charges for distribution, transmission and electricity. Given the relatively small increase of $83 million approved by the ICC in the annual distribution revenue requirements, the majority of the change in year over year pricing was driven by the inclusion of market based electricity rates. The market based electricity rates were determined through the reverse auction competitive bidding process. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Additionally starting in 2007, ComEd is recovering former manufactured gas plant remediation costs from customers. Purchased Power. Purchased power increased due to higher electricity prices. The PPA with Generation terminated at the end of 2006. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under its supplier forward contracts for the blended and annual products and from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets for the hourly product. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Rate Relief Program Revenue. As part of its program for customer rate relief, ComEd is funding a portion of the credits issued to customers. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Rate Relief Programs. Transmission Revenue. In 2007, ComEd experienced increased revenue from the provision of transmission services resulting from increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Additionally on June 5, 2007, FERC issued an order in ComEds transmission rate case conditionally approving ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate and associated rate increase effective May 1, 2007, subject to refund. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Transmission Rate Case. Purchased Power. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. These charges were being collected subject to refund as they are being disputed. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. SECA charges expired on March 31, 2006. As ComEd was a net collector of SECA charges, ComEd recorded $5 million of net SECA collections in 2006. Also during 2006, ComEd adjusted its reserve for possible SECA refunds. In 2007, based on FERC approval of certain settlements, ComEd reduced its reserve for possible SECA refunds to reflect managements best estimate of the remaining amounts that will ultimately be required to be refunded. The reserve existing at December 31, 2007 continues to represent managements best estimate. Management of ComEd believes that the appropriate reserve has been established in the event that some portion of the remaining SECA collections that are not settled are required to be refunded. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the SECA rates. Weather Revenue. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions for 2007 compared to 2006. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity. Conversely, mild weather in non summer months reduces demand. In ComEds service territory, heating degree days were 8% higher and cooling degree days were 19% higher during 2007 compared to 2006. 101 Table of Contents Purchased Power. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather resulted from higher demand due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Delivery volume Revenue. The increase in revenues for the provision of distribution services primarily resulted from an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers. Customer choice Revenue. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied electricity and generation service. As of December 31, 2007, three competitive electric generation suppliers had been granted approval to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, these suppliers are not currently supplying electricity to any of ComEds residential customers. As a result of ComEds higher electricity rates, more non residential customers have elected to have a competitive electric generation supplier provide their electricity. For 2007 and 2006, 48% and 28%, respectively, of electricity delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers or the ComEd power purchase option (PPO) which is based on market based rates. Most of the customers previously receiving electricity under the PPO are now electing either to buy their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier or from ComEd under tariff rates. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 44,200 20,300 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % (b) Volume (GWhs) (a) 45,070 25,521 Percentage of total retail deliveries 48 % 28 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWh. (b) Less than one percent. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Other Revenue Wholesale Contracts. ComEds revenue decreased $64 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. Revenue City of Chicago Settlement. ComEd paid $23 million under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago, which was recorded as a reduction of revenue. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Revenue Economic Hedge Derivative Contracts. During 2007 as compared to 2006, ComEd had a net $6 million increase in economic hedge derivative contracts activity, including mark to market adjustments and settlements. 102 Table of Contents Purchased Power Wholesale Contracts. ComEds purchased power decreased $50 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 201 Contracting 31 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (b) 26 Wages and salaries 23 Incremental storm related costs 19 Fringe benefits (c) 14 Corporate allocations 11 Materials and supplies expense 8 Post rate freeze period transition expenses (d) 7 Postage 7 Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 346 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC rehearing order, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses including severance costs, MGP costs, procurement case and rate case costs. (b) This increase resulted from a change in collectibility assumptions in response to changes in the customer payment patterns, changes in customer prices, changes in termination practices and certain changes in business and economic conditions. (c) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits primarily due to increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs. (d) Includes increased advertising costs, costs associated with the Rate Relief programs and other costs associated with transitioning to the post rate freeze period. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The assessment indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2007 annual goodwill impairment assessment (performed in the fourth quarter) resulted in no additional impairment. ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2007. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 15 Other amortization expense (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 10 103 Table of Contents In 2006, ComEds amortization primarily reflected $43 million of the amortization of the regulatory asset for recoverable transition costs, while in 2007, ComEds amortization primarily reflected the initial $35 million of amortization of the various regulatory assets authorized by the ICC in its 2006 orders. See Notes 19 and 20 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased for 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a $7 million refund of Illinois Electricity Distribution tax received in 2006. Interest Expense, Net. The increase in interest expense, net for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Interest expense on debt (a) $ 24 Amortization of debt related costs (b) 20 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (c) (32 ) Other (2 ) Increase in interest expense, net $ 10 (a) This increase resulted from higher debt balances and higher interest rates. (b) In 2007, ComEds interest expense, net reflected the initial amortization of the regulatory asset related to the early debt retirement costs authorized by the ICC in 2006. (c) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ (87 ) Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (b) 41 Gain on disposal of assets and investments, net 4 Other 4 Decrease in other, net $ (38 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. (b) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 32.7% for 2007, compared to 133.6% for 2006. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the non deductible impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill accounting. The non deductible goodwill impairment charge decreased income (loss) before income taxes which increased the effective tax rate from continuing operations by 81.6% in 2006. The balance of the reduction was due to a benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization change in 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. 104 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 29,374 28,330 1,044 3.7 % Small commercial & industrial 16,452 24,122 (7,670 ) (31.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,915 10,336 (8,421 ) (81.5 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 766 2,254 (1,488 ) (66.0 )% Total full service 48,507 65,042 (16,535 ) (25.4 )% PPO Small commercial & industrial 16 2,475 (2,459 ) (99.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 34 2,259 (2,225 ) (98.5 )% 50 4,734 (4,684 ) (98.9 )% Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 17,380 5,505 11,875 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 27,122 15,282 11,840 77.5 % Public authorities & electric railroads 518 518 n.m. 45,020 20,787 24,233 116.6 % Total PPO and delivery only 45,070 25,521 19,549 76.6 % Total retail deliveries 93,577 90,563 3,014 3.3 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. n.m. Not meaningful. Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 3,161 $ 2,453 $ 708 28.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,618 1,882 (264 ) (14.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 151 563 (412 ) (73.2 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 67 137 (70 ) (51.1 )% Total full service 4,997 5,035 (38 ) (0.8 )% PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 1 178 (177 ) (99.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 3 137 (134 ) (97.8 )% 4 315 (311 ) (98.7 )% Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 261 85 176 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 276 155 121 78.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 5 5 n.m. 542 240 302 125.8 % Total PPO and delivery only 546 555 (9 ) (1.6 )% Total electric retail revenues 5,543 5,590 (47 ) (0.8 )% Other revenues (d) 561 511 50 9.8 % Total operating revenues $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 3 n.m. (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC through December 2006. 105 Table of Contents (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC through December 2006. (d) Other revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities, other wholesale energy sales and economic hedge derivative contracts. n.m. Not meaningful Results of Operations PECO 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,613 $ 5,168 $ 445 Purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,983 2,702 (281 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,630 2,466 164 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 630 628 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 773 710 (63 ) Taxes other than income 280 262 (18 ) Total other operating expenses 1,683 1,600 (83 ) Operating income 947 866 81 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (248 ) (266 ) 18 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (7 ) (9 ) 2 Other, net 45 30 15 Total other income and deductions (210 ) (245 ) 35 Income before income taxes 737 621 116 Income taxes 230 180 (50 ) Net income 507 441 66 Preferred stock dividends 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 503 $ 437 $ 66 Net Income. PECOs net income for 2007 compared to 2006 increased primarily due to higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense, which reflected increased sales from favorable weather conditions, increased usage across all customer classes for both electric and gas, the completion of certain authorized rate increases that began in 2006 and the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute, as well as the recognition of income resulting from a reduction in the reserve after the successful PURTA tax appeal. Partially offsetting these factors was higher scheduled CTC amortization, which was in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. Electric and Gas Operating Revenues, Purchased Power Expense and Fuel Expense. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 106 Table of Contents The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power expense and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower ExpenseandFuel Expense Net Weather $ 108 $ 47 $ 61 $ 119 $ 98 $ 21 $ 227 $ 145 $ 82 Volume 82 32 50 4 6 (2 ) 86 38 48 Rate increases (decreases) 195 184 11 (114 ) (114 ) 81 70 11 Settlement of PJM billing dispute (10 ) 10 (10 ) 10 Customer choice 8 8 8 8 Other rate changes and mix (28 ) (3 ) (25 ) 5 8 (3 ) (23 ) 5 (28 ) Other 38 4 34 28 21 7 66 25 41 Total increase $ 403 $ 262 $ 141 $ 42 $ 19 $ 23 $ 445 $ 281 $ 164 Weather Revenues. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating degree days and cooling degree days were 16% and 15% higher, respectively, during 2007 compared to 2006. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was due to higher demand as a result of favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Volume Revenues. The increase in revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in expenses as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. Rate increases (decreases) Revenues. The total increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases of $195 million reflected $184 million related to a scheduled electric generation rate increase, which was 107 Table of Contents effective for customer bills for electric generation service delivered after customers January 2007 meter readings. This electric generation rate increase represented the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase did not affect operating income as PECO incurred corresponding and offsetting purchased power expense under its PPA with Generation. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases also reflected $11 million associated with the completion in January 2007 of scheduled CTC and distribution rate increases that began in 2006. The decrease in gas revenues was due to lower market prices for gas, on which the PAPUC approved rates, which are adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas adjustment clause, are based. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2007 was 17% lower than the average rate for 2006. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to electric rate increases reflected the scheduled generation rate increase under the PPA with Generation, which directly offset the increase in revenues. The decrease in fuel expense reflected lower gas prices. Settlement of PJM billing dispute Purchased Power. PECOs purchased power expense decreased $10 million due to the settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. For 2007 and 2006, 2% of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 29,200 34,400 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 2 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 627 767 Percentage of total retail deliveries 2 % 2 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). The increase in electric retail revenue and expense associated with customer choice reflected customers, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class, returning to PECO as their electric supplier. Other rate changes and mix Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues attributable to other rate changes and mix primarily reflected the effects of rate blocking, whereby certain customer charges per unit of energy are reduced when customer usage by certain commercial and industrial customers exceeds a certain threshold. 108 Table of Contents Other revenues and expenses Revenues. The increase in electric revenues was primarily due to increased late payment fees and other factors, none of which were individually significant. The increase in gas revenues was primarily due to increased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel. The increase in fuel expense was due to increased off system sales. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (a) $ 13 Contracting (b) 12 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits (c) 6 Environmental reserve (d) 4 Injuries and damages expense 3 Incremental storm related costs (e) (39 ) Severance related expenses (5 ) PSEG merger integration costs incurred in 2006 (4 ) Other 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) Reflects higher 2007 expense primarily associated with a revision of estimated uncollectible accounts in response to certain changes in business and economic conditions. (b) Reflects higher 2007 contracting expense primarily associated with vegetation management services and tax consulting. (c) Reflects stock compensation, pension and other postretirement benefit costs, among other fringe benefits. (d) Reflects lower expense in 2006 due to a settlement related to a Superfund site. (e) Reflects higher 2006 storm related costs primarily associated with a significant storm in the third quarter of 2006. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) CTC amortization (a) $ 69 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (9 ) Other 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 63 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $9 million in 2006. The new system was implemented in 2006. 109 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 25 State franchise tax adjustment in 2006 (b) 7 Sales and use tax adjustment in 2006 (b) 5 Reduction of reserve related to PURTA tax appeal (c) (17 ) Other (2 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 18 (a) The increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues, as these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities. (b) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. (c) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding PURTA activity. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to scheduled payments on lower long term debt balances owed to PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Other, Net. The increase in other, net for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to interest income recorded as a result of the reduction in the reserve after the successful PURTA tax appeal and interest income related to uncertain tax positions under FIN 48. Partially offsetting these factors were a 2006 investment tax credit refund and a 2006 research and development credit refund. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of other, net. See Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the adoption of FIN 48. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement for additional information regarding PURTA activity. Effective Income Tax Rate. PECOs effective income tax rate was 31.2% for 2007 compared to 29.0% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an investment tax credit refund and a research and development credit refund in 2006, partially offset by the benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. 110 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 13,446 12,796 650 5.1 % Small commercial & industrial 8,288 7,818 470 6.0 % Large commercial & industrial 16,522 15,898 624 3.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 930 906 24 2.6 % Total full service 39,186 37,418 1,768 4.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 42 61 (19 ) (31.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 571 671 (100 ) (14.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 14 35 (21 ) (60.0 )% Total delivery only 627 767 (140 ) (18.3 )% Total retail deliveries 39,813 38,185 1,628 4.3 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,948 $ 1,780 $ 168 9.4 % Small commercial & industrial 1,042 943 99 10.5 % Large commercial & industrial 1,386 1,286 100 7.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 89 83 6 7.2 % Total full service 4,465 4,092 373 9.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 4 5 (1 ) (20.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 30 36 (6 ) (16.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 1 (1 ) (100.0 )% Total delivery only 34 42 (8 ) (19.0 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,499 4,134 365 8.8 % Other revenue (c) 276 238 38 16.0 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,775 $ 4,372 $ 403 9.2 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 111 Table of Contents PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Retail sales 58,968 50,578 8,390 16.6 % Transportation 27,632 25,527 2,105 8.2 % Total 86,600 76,105 10,495 13.8 % Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 784 $ 770 $ 14 1.8 % Transportation 17 16 1 6.3 % Resales and other 37 10 27 n.m. Total gas revenue $ 838 $ 796 $ 42 5.3 % n.m. Not meaningful Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Results of Operations Exelon 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 298 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 5,232 5,670 438 Operating and maintenance 3,868 3,694 (174 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 1,487 1,334 (153 ) Taxes other than income 771 728 (43 ) Total operating expenses 12,134 12,633 499 Operating income 3,521 2,724 797 Other income and deductions Interest expense (616 ) (513 ) (103 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (264 ) (316 ) 52 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (111 ) (134 ) 23 Other, net 266 134 132 Total other income and deductions (725 ) (829 ) 104 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,796 1,895 901 Income taxes 1,206 944 (262 ) Income from continuing operations 1,590 951 639 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 2 14 (12 ) Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,592 965 627 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 42 Net income $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 0.99 112 Table of Contents Net Income. Exelons net income for 2006 reflects higher realized prices on market sales and increased nuclear output at Generation; a one time benefit of approximately $158 million to recover previously incurred severance costs approved by the December 2006 amended ICC rate order; a one time benefit of approximately $130 million to recover certain costs approved by the July 2006 ICC rate order; a decrease in Generations nuclear ARO resulting from changes in managements assessment of the probabilities associated with the anticipated timing of cash flows to decommission primarily AmerGen nuclear plants; unrealized mark to market gains; increased electric revenues at PECO associated with certain authorized rate increases; and increased kWh deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, reflecting load growth at ComEd and PECO. These increases were partially offset by the impact of a $776 million impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill; unfavorable weather conditions in both the ComEd and PECO service territories; a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased severance and severance related charges; losses from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities; increased depreciation and amortization expense, including CTC amortization at PECO; and higher operating and maintenance expenses including increased costs associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory, increased nuclear refueling outage costs, increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R, and the impacts of inflation. Exelons net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1.2 billion associated with ComEds goodwill; unrealized mark to market losses; losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47; favorable tax settlements at Generation and PECO; and gains realized on AmerGens decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation due to an increase in market prices; higher nuclear output; electric rate increases at PECO; and higher kWh deliveries at ComEd and PECO, excluding the effects of weather. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to lower volumes of power purchased in the market and decreased fossil generation, partially offset by overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply in 2006 compared to 22% for 2005. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased nuclear refueling outage costs; increased severance and severance related charges; increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R; and the impacts from inflation. These increases were partially offset by a one time benefit of $201 million to recover certain costs approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order and the ICCs December 2006 amended rate order; the impact of the reduction in Generations estimated nuclear asset retirement obligation; mark to market gains associated with Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities; and a charge for a reserve recorded by Generation in 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2006, ComEd recorded a $776 million impairment charge associated with its goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. During 2005, in connection with the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment, ComEd recorded a $1.2 billion charge. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service across Exelon. 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to a reduction in 2005 of previously established real estate tax reserves at PECO and Generation and a net increase in utility revenue taxes at ComEd and PECO in 2006, partially offset by favorable state franchise tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects increased interest expense associated with the debt issued in 2005 to fund Exelons voluntary pension contribution; higher interest rates on variable rate debt outstanding; higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for pre 1983 spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE; an interest payment to the IRS associated with the settlement of a tax matter at Generation; and a one time benefit of $87 million approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order to recover previously incurred debt expenses to retire debt early. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 43.1% for 2006 compared to 49.8% for 2005. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income tax rate from continuing operations by 9.7% and 22.3% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. The results of Sithe are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $12 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2006 and 2005 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 294 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (142 ) (2 ) (140 ) Total $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 639 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 114 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,128 $ 279 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 965 $ 627 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 ComEd (112 ) (685 ) 573 PECO 441 517 (76 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 3,978 4,482 504 Operating and maintenance 2,305 2,288 (17 ) Depreciation and amortization 279 254 (25 ) Taxes other than income 185 170 (15 ) Total operating expenses 6,747 7,194 447 Operating income 2,396 1,852 544 Other income and deductions Interest expense (159 ) (128 ) (31 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (1 ) (8 ) Other, net 41 95 (54 ) Total other income and deductions (127 ) (34 ) (93 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,269 1,818 451 Income taxes 866 709 (157 ) Income from continuing operations 1,403 1,109 294 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income from discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,407 1,128 279 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 30 Net income $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 115 Table of Contents Net Income. Generations net income for 2006 compared to 2005 increased due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense, higher depreciation expense, higher interest expense and lower other income. The increase in Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense was due to realized revenues associated with forward sales contracts entered into in prior periods which were recognized at higher prices, combined with lower purchased power and fuel expense due to the impact of higher nuclear output. Unlike the energy delivery business, the effects of unusually warm or cold weather on Generation depend on the nature of its market position at the time of the unusual weather. Generations net income for 2006 and 2005 reflects income from discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (after tax), respectively. Operating Revenues. For 2006 and 2005, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,674 $ 4,775 $ (101 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,640 3,341 299 8.9 % Total energy sales revenue 8,314 8,116 198 2.4 % Retail gas sales 540 613 (73 ) (11.9 )% Trading portfolio 14 17 (3 ) (17.6 )% Other revenue (a) 275 300 (25 ) (8.3 )% Total revenue $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 1.1 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales, operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. Sales (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 119,354 121,961 (2,607 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 71,326 72,376 (1,050 ) (1.5 )% Total sales 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% Trading volumes of 31,692 GWhs and 26,924 GWhs for 2006 and 2005, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates decreased $101 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $95 million decrease from lower electric sales volume, as well as a net $6 million decrease resulting from lower prices. In the ComEd territories, lower volumes resulted in a $115 million decrease in revenues as a result of lower demand resulting from milder weather year over year. In addition, price decreases totaling $128 million were a result of lower peak prices under the ComEd PPA. In the PECO territories, the higher volumes resulted in increased revenues of $20 million due to higher usage. The favorable price variance of $122 million was primarily the result of the scheduled PAPUC approved generation rate increase as well as to a lesser degree a change in the mix of average pricing related to the PPA with PECO. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase will take effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will have a favorable effect on Generations operating income in future years. 116 Table of Contents Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 353 Volume (54 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 299 Wholesale and retail sales increased $299 million due to an increase in realized revenues associated with forward sales entered into in prior periods, which were recognized at higher prices for the year ended December 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, offset by a reduction in volumes sold into the market as a result of lower supply. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales decreased $73 million primarily due to lower volumes for 2006 compared to 2005, resulting in a $69 million decrease. Additionally, there was a decrease of $4 million due to lower realized prices for 2006 compared to 2005. Other revenues. The decrease in 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in fossil fuel sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,610 137,936 1,674 1.2 % Purchases non trading portfolio 38,297 42,623 (4,326 ) (10.1 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 12,773 13,778 (1,005 ) (7.3 )% Total supply 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: (in millions) Price Volume Increase(Decrease) Purchased power costs $ (81 ) $ (319 ) $ (400 ) Generation costs 38 4 42 Fuel resale costs 34 (65 ) (31 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. (115 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (504 ) n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation experienced a decrease of $319 million due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market as a result of a lower demand from affiliates. Additionally, overall lower prices paid for purchased power in 2006 compared to 2005 resulted in a $81 million decrease. Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel costs for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increased prices related to nuclear and fossil fuel generation, resulting in a $38 million increase. 117 Table of Contents Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs in 2006 compared to 2005 were a result of a $65 million decrease in the retail gas business resulting from lower volumes, partially offset by overall higher prices paid for gas. Mark to market. Mark to market gains on power derivative activities were $180 million in 2006 compared to losses of $12 million in 2005. Mark to market losses on fuel derivative activities were $77 million in 2006 compared to zero in 2005. Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2006 and 2005 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2006 2005 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 39.16 $ 39.15 n.m. Wholesale and retail electric sales 51.03 46.16 10.6 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 43.60 41.76 4.4 % Average electric supply cost (a) excluding the trading portfolio $ 18.02 $ 20.11 (10.4 )% Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 25.58 $ 21.65 18.2 % (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. n.m. Not meaningful Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2006 2005 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.85 $ 13.03 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. Although total refueling outage days increased during 2006 compared to 2005, the nuclear fleet capacity factor for the Generation operating nuclear fleet increased due to fewer non refueling outage days during 2006 compared to 2005. For 2006 and 2005, non refueling outage days totaled 71 and 112, respectively, and refueling outage days totaled 237 and 217, respectively. Higher costs for nuclear fuel, costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days, higher costs for refueling outage inspection and maintenance activities, costs for the tritium related expenses, an NRC fee increase, and inflationary cost increases for normal plant operations and maintenance offset the higher number of MWhs generated resulting in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2006 as compared to 2005. There were ten planned refueling outages and sixteen non refueling outages during 2006 compared to nine planned refueling outages and twenty five non refueling outages during 2005 at the Generation operated nuclear stations. 118 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Pension, payroll and benefit costs $ 153 Contractor expenses 22 Nuclear refueling outage costs including the co owned Salem plant 19 NRC fees 11 Godley contribution 11 Tritium related expense 9 Reduction in ARO (a) (149 ) 2005 accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (b) (43 ) 2005 co owner settlement with PSEG related to postretirement benefits (17 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 17 (a) For further discussion, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) For further discussion, see Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The $17 million increase in operating and maintenance expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a $153 million increase in various payroll related expenses, including increased stock based compensation expense of $41 million primarily as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R as of January 1, 2006 and increased direct and allocated costs related to payroll, severance, pension and other postretirement benefits, a $22 million period over period increase in contractor costs, primarily related to staff augmentation and recurring maintenance work at Nuclear and Power, a $19 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days during 2006 as compared to 2005, and higher costs for inspection and maintenance activities. Additionally, on December 22, 2006, as a gesture of goodwill and corporate citizenship, Generation contributed approximately $11 million into an escrow account to assist the Godley Public Water District with the installation of a new public drinking water system for the Village of Godley. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 was a result of recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income incurred during 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to increasing the property tax reserve for 2006 property taxes for Byron, Clinton and Dresden, higher payroll related taxes which were the result of higher payroll costs for 2006 and a reduction recorded in 2005 of a previously established real estate reserve associated with the settlement over the TMI real estate assessment. The increases were partially offset by a sales and use tax reserve recorded during the third quarter of 2005 and a gas revenue tax adjustment recorded during the fourth quarter of 2005. Interest Expense. The increase in interest expense during 2006 as compared to 2005 was attributable to higher variable interest rates on debt outstanding, higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE and an interest payment made to the IRS in settlement of a tax matter. Other, Net. The decrease in other income in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to gains realized in the second quarter of 2005 totaling $36 million related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants due to changes in Generations investment strategy. 119 Table of Contents Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 38.2% for 2006 compared to 39.0% for 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe have been presented as discontinued operations within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Generations net income in 2006 and 2005 reflects a gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (both after tax), respectively. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $15 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the second quarter of 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications, accrued interest and collections on receivables arising from the sale of Sithe that had been fully reserved. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. Results of Operations ComEd 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) Purchased power expense 3,292 3,520 228 Revenue net of purchased power expense 2,809 2,744 65 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 745 833 88 Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 430 413 (17 ) Taxes other than income 303 303 Total other operating expenses 2,254 2,756 502 Operating income (loss) 555 (12 ) 567 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (308 ) (291 ) (17 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (10 ) (14 ) 4 Other, net 96 4 92 Total other income and deductions (222 ) (301 ) 79 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 333 (313 ) 646 Income taxes 445 363 (82 ) Loss before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (112 ) (676 ) 564 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) 9 Net loss $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 573 120 Table of Contents Net Loss. ComEds decreased net loss in 2006 compared to 2005 was driven by a smaller impairment of goodwill in 2006, lower purchased power expense and one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July 2006 and December 2006 ICC rate orders as more fully described below, partially offset by lower operating revenues. Operating Revenues and Purchased Power Expense. ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. ComEd has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense RevenueNet ofPurchasedPowerExpense Rate changes and mix $ 23 $ (135 ) $ 158 Volume 84 42 42 Weather (226 ) (111 ) (115 ) Customer choice (67 ) (56 ) (11 ) Other 23 32 (9 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (163 ) $ (228 ) $ 65 Rate changes and mix Revenue. The increase in revenue related to rate and mix changes represents differences in year over year consumption between various customer classes offset by a decline in the CTC paid by customers of competitive electric generation suppliers due to the increase in market energy prices. The average rate paid by various customers is dependent on the amount and time of day that the power is consumed. Changes in customer consumption patterns, including increased usage, can result in an overall decrease in the average rate even though the tariff or rate schedule remains unchanged. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Starting in January 2007, ComEd began collecting revenues consistent with the approved ICC orders in the Procurement Case and the Rate Case. Purchased Power. Purchased power decreased due to the decrease in contracted energy prices under the PPA that ComEd had with Generation. The PPA contract was entered into in March 2004 and reflected forward power prices in existence at that time. The PPA terminated at the end of 2006 and was replaced with the reverse auction process in 2007, which was approved by the ICC. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Volume Revenue. Revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. 121 Table of Contents Purchased Power. The amount of purchased power attributable to volume increased as a result of increased usage by ComEd supplied customers on a weather normalized basis versus the same period in 2005. Weather Revenue. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 20% and 8% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Customer choice Revenue. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2006, one competitive electric generation supplier had been granted approval to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, this supplier was not supplying electricity to any residential customers. For 2006 and 2005, 23% and 21%, respectively, of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. Most of the customers previously receiving energy under the PPO are now electing either to buy their power from a competitive electric generation supplier or from ComEd under bundled rates. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 20,787 19,310 Percentage of total retail deliveries 23 % 21 % Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 20,300 21,300 Percentage of total retail customers (b) (b) Volume (GWhs) (a) 25,521 30,905 Percentage of total retail deliveries 28 % 33 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. Other Revenue Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenues. The wholesale and miscellaneous revenues increase primarily reflects an increase in transmission revenue reflecting increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Revenue Economic Hedge Derivative Contracts. Mark to market contracts primarily reflect a mark to market loss associated with one wholesale contract that had previously been recorded as a normal sale under SFAS No. 133 in 2005. This contract expires in December 2007. 122 Table of Contents Purchased Power PJM transmission. The decrease in PJM transmission expense reflects a decrease in ancillary charges, partially offset by increased peak demand and consumption by ComEd supplied customers. Purchased Power SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. These charges were being collected subject to refund as they are being disputed. As a result of current events related to SECA disputes, during the first quarter of 2006, ComEd increased its reserve for amounts to be refunded. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. As ComEd was a net collector of SECA charges, the 2005 purchased power expense, which reflected a full year of SECA collections, was lower than 2006, which reflected only three months of SECA collections, due to the expiration of SECA charges on March 31, 2006. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the SECA rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ (201 ) Fringe benefits (b) 43 Severance related expenses 17 Wages and salaries 17 Customers Affordable Reliable Energy program 9 Environmental costs 5 Rent and lease expense 5 Storm costs 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Other 11 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (88 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC order on rehearing, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses, including MGP costs, severance costs and procurement case costs. (b) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits, including increased stock based compensation expense of $24 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006 and increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs of $14 million. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2006 annual goodwill impairment assessment (performed in the fourth quarter) resulted in no additional impairment. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd had approximately $2.7 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds PPA with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, 123 Table of Contents regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 12 Other amortization expense 5 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 17 In 2007, ComEds amortization will reflect the elimination of the recoverable transition costs regulatory asset and the initial amortization of the various regulatory assets authorized by the ICC in its July and December 2006 orders. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income remained constant in 2006 compared to 2005. Interest Expense, Net. The increase in interest expense, net in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily resulted from higher debt balances and higher interest rates. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 87 Loss on settlement of 2005 cash flow swaps 15 Sale of receivable in 2005 (3 ) Loss on disposition of assets and investments, net (3 ) Other (4 ) Increase in other, net $ 92 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded a one time benefit associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 133.6% and (116.0)% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income tax rate by 81.6% in 2006 and decreased the effective income tax rate by 135.0% in 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 124 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 28,330 30,042 (1,712 ) (5.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 24,122 21,378 2,744 12.8 % Large commercial & industrial 10,336 7,904 2,432 30.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,254 2,133 121 5.7 % Total full service 65,042 61,457 3,585 5.8 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 2,475 5,591 (3,116 ) (55.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 2,259 6,004 (3,745 ) (62.4 )% 4,734 11,595 (6,861 ) (59.2 )% Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,505 5,677 (172 ) (3.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 15,282 13,633 1,649 12.1 % 20,787 19,310 1,477 7.6 % Total PPO and delivery only 25,521 30,905 (5,384 ) (17.4 )% Total retail deliveries 90,563 92,362 (1,799 ) (1.9 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,453 $ 2,584 $ (131 ) (5.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,882 1,671 211 12.6 % Large commercial & industrial 563 408 155 38.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 137 132 5 3.8 % Total full service 5,035 4,795 240 5.0 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 178 385 (207 ) (53.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 137 345 (208 ) (60.3 )% 315 730 (415 ) (56.8 )% Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 85 95 (10 ) (10.5 )% Large commercial & industrial 155 156 (1 ) (0.6 )% 240 251 (11 ) (4.4 )% Total PPO and delivery only 555 981 (426 ) (43.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 5,590 5,776 (186 ) (3.2 )% Other revenues (d) 511 488 23 4.7 % Total operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) (2.6 )% (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC through December 2006. 125 Table of Contents (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC through December 2006. (d) Other revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities, other wholesale energy sales and economic hedge derivative contracts. Results of Operations PECO 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 258 Purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,702 2,515 (187 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,466 2,395 71 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 628 549 (79 ) Depreciation and amortization 710 566 (144 ) Taxes other than income 262 231 (31 ) Total other operating expenses 1,600 1,346 (254 ) Operating income 866 1,049 (183 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (266 ) (279 ) 13 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (16 ) 7 Other, net 30 13 17 Total other income and deductions (245 ) (282 ) 37 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 621 767 (146 ) Income taxes 180 247 67 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 441 520 (79 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) 3 Net income 441 517 (76 ) Preferred stock dividends 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 437 $ 513 $ (76 ) Net Income. PECOs net income in 2006 decreased primarily due to higher scheduled CTC amortization and higher operating and maintenance expense, which reflected higher storm costs. Partially offsetting these factors were higher revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense. Higher net revenues reflected certain authorized electric rate increases, including a scheduled CTC rate increase, partially offset by lower net electric and gas revenues as a result of unfavorable weather relative to the prior year. The increases in CTC amortization expense and CTC rates were in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC. The increase in CTC amortization expense exceeded the increase in CTC revenues. Electric and Gas Operating Revenues, Purchased Power Expense and Fuel Expense. PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric and revenue net of fuel expense for gas. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of 126 Table of Contents purchased power expense and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power expense and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower ExpenseandFuel Expense Net Rate increases $ 237 $ 94 $ 143 $ 127 $ 127 $ $ 364 $ 221 $ 143 Unbilled revenue change in estimate 35 14 21 35 14 21 Volume 20 4 16 (10 ) (13 ) 3 10 (9 ) 19 Customer choice 62 62 62 62 Weather (91 ) (39 ) (52 ) (130 ) (107 ) (23 ) (221 ) (146 ) (75 ) PJM transmission 26 31 (5 ) 26 31 (5 ) Other rate changes and mix (10 ) (7 ) (3 ) (10 ) (7 ) (3 ) Other 27 (27 ) (8 ) (6 ) (2 ) (8 ) 21 (29 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 279 $ 186 $ 93 $ (21 ) $ 1 $ (22 ) $ 258 $ 187 $ 71 Rate increases Revenues. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases reflected scheduled CTC and generation rate increases in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC and the elimination of the aggregate $200 million electric distribution rate reductions over the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005 (approximately $40 million in 2005) related to the PAPUCs approval of the merger between PECO and ComEd. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase took effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will not affect operating income as PECO will incur corresponding and offsetting purchased power expenses under its PPA with Generation. The increase in gas revenues was due to higher market prices for gas on which the PAPUC approved rates, which are adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas adjustment clause, are based. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was 30% higher than the average rate for the same period in 2005. While PECOs average purchased gas cost rate was higher in 2006 compared to 2005, quarterly changes to purchased gas cost rates since March 1, 2006 have resulted in decreases to the rates, with the September 1, 2006 and December 1, 2006 rate decreases resulting in lower rates in 2006 compared to comparable periods in 2005. This trend will continue into the first quarter of 2007, during the peak of PECOs winter heating season, as first quarter of 2007 rates will be significantly lower than first quarter of 2006 rates. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. PECOs purchased power expense increased $87 million corresponding to the increase in electric revenues which was attributable to the scheduled PAPUC 127 Table of Contents approved generation rate increase. In addition, PECOs purchased power expense increased $7 million due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher average gas prices. Unbilled revenue change in estimate Revenues. In 2006, PECO recorded a $35 million increase to unbilled electric revenues associated with a change in estimate in the amount of revenue recognized, although unbilled, at the end of 2006. As discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, the nature of the unbilled revenue calculation is inherently an estimation process. As a result of Exelons integration efforts associated with its then pending merger with PSEG and PECOs implementation of a new customer information management system in 2006, PECO received new information with which to better analyze the data underlying its unbilled revenue calculation. This amount is partially offset by a $14 million increase in purchased power expense as noted below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. In 2006, PECO recorded a $14 million increase to purchased power associated with a change in estimate for unbilled electric revenue as the energy component of the estimate change is passed onto Generation. Volume Revenues. The increase in electric revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was primarily due to an increased number of customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was primarily due to an increased number of customers. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. For 2006 and 2005, 2% and 5%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 34,400 44,500 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 3 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 767 2,094 Percentage of total retail deliveries 2 % 5 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). 128 Table of Contents The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice reflected customers from all customer classes returning to PECO as their electric supplier as a result of rising wholesale energy prices and a number of competitive electric generation suppliers exiting the market during 2005 and 2006. Weather Revenues. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating and cooling degree days were 18% and 15% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to lower demand as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. PJM Transmission Revenues. The increase in PJM transmission revenues reflected increased peak demand and consumption by PECO supplied customers due to load growth as well as an increase in PECO supplied customers driven by more customers choosing PECO for supply due to competitive electric generation suppliers higher market prices. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in PJM transmission expense reflected increased peak demand and consumption by PECO supplied customers due to load growth as well as an increase in PECO supplied customers driven by more customers choosing PECO for supply due to competitive electric generation suppliers higher market prices. Other rate changes and mix Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues attributable to other rate changes and mix was primarily due to increased large commercial and industrial sales, which are billed at lower rates relative to other customer classes, and lower rates for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were lower in the latter part of 2006 relative to 2005. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power attributable to other rate changes and mix was primarily due to increased large commercial and industrial sales, which are billed at lower rates relative to other customer classes, and lower rates for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were lower in the latter part of 2006 relative to 2005. Other revenue and expenses Revenues. There was no overall change in electric revenues, although there were increased sales of energy into the PJM spot market, which were completely offset by variances in other revenue categories, none of which were individually material. If PECOs energy needs are less than the daily amount scheduled, the excess is sold into the PJM spot market. Revenues from these sales are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas revenues was due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in electric purchased power expense was primarily due to increased energy purchases in the PJM spot market. If PECOs energy needs are 129 Table of Contents greater than the daily amount scheduled, the shortfall is secured through purchases in the PJM spot market. These additional costs are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas fuel expense was related to decreased off system sales. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Storm costs $ 36 Contractors (a) 14 Allowance for uncollectible accounts (b) 13 Fringe benefits (c) 11 Severance related expenses 6 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Injuries and damages (6 ) Environmental reserve (d) (4 ) Other 7 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 79 (a) Reflects higher professional fees, including $9 million associated with tax consulting, and various other increases. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding tax consulting fees. (b) Reflects the following factors, all of which increased expense in 2006 as compared to 2005: (i) higher average accounts receivable balances in 2006 compared to 2005 resulting from increased revenues; (ii) changes in PAPUC approved regulations related to customer payment terms; and (iii) an increase in the number of low income customers participating in customer assistance programs, which allow for the forgiveness of certain receivables. (c) Reflects increased stock based compensation expense of $11 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006. (d) Represents a settlement related to one Superfund site in 2006. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) CTC amortization (a) $ 146 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (4 ) Other 2 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 144 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The new system was implemented in 2006. 130 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 14 State franchise tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (b) 10 Real estate tax adjustment in 2005 (c) 6 Sales and use tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (2 ) Other 3 Increase in taxes other than income $ 31 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 of $7 million following settlements related to prior year tax assessments and the $17 million reduction of an accrual in 2005 related to prior years. (c) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in 2005 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to scheduled payments on lower long term debt balances owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with the September 2006 issuance of $300 million First Mortgage Bonds, higher interest rates on variable rate long term debt and an increased amount of commercial paper outstanding at higher rates. Other, Net. The increase in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to interest income associated with an investment tax credit refund of $11 million and interest income associated with a research and development credit refund of $10 million in 2006. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of other, net. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in net interest expense of PETT due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Effective Income Tax Rate. PECOs effective income tax rate was 29.0% for 2006 compared to 32.2% for 2005. The lower effective tax rate in 2006 reflects investment tax credit and research and development credit refunds in 2006. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 131 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 12,796 13,135 (339 ) (2.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 7,818 7,263 555 7.6 % Large commercial & industrial 15,898 15,205 693 4.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 906 962 (56 ) (5.8 )% Total full service 37,418 36,565 853 2.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 61 334 (273 ) (81.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 671 1,257 (586 ) (46.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 35 503 (468 ) (93.0 )% Total delivery only 767 2,094 (1,327 ) (63.4 )% Total retail deliveries 38,185 38,659 (474 ) (1.2 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,780 $ 1,705 $ 75 4.4 % Small commercial & industrial 943 818 125 15.3 % Large commercial & industrial 1,286 1,173 113 9.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 83 84 (1 ) (1.2 )% Total full service 4,092 3,780 312 8.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 5 25 (20 ) (80.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 36 63 (27 ) (42.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 1 13 (12 ) (92.3 )% Total delivery only 42 101 (59 ) (58.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,134 3,881 253 6.5 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 238 212 26 12.3 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,372 $ 4,093 $ 279 6.8 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 132 Table of Contents PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales 50,578 59,751 (9,173 ) (15.4 )% Transportation 25,527 25,310 217 0.9 % Total 76,105 85,061 (8,956 ) (10.5 )% Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 770 $ 783 $ (13 ) (1.7 )% Transportation 16 16 % Resales and other 10 18 (8 ) (44.4 )% Total gas revenue $ 796 $ 817 $ (21 ) (2.6 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. Generation, ComEd and PECO, may also receive capital contributions from Exelon if Exelon determines it is appropriate. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. Exelon, Generation and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs and to issue letters of credit. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had $370 million of credit facility borrowings since its access to the commercial paper market is limited due to its current credit ratings. See the Credit Issues section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating, financing and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, each of Exelons, ComEds and PECOs working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd and PECO intend to refinance maturing debt in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd has the capacity to issue approximately $2.8 billion of first mortgage bonds as a result of replacing its secured credit facility, which contained a restriction on a portion of such bond issuances, with an unsecured credit facility, which does not contain such a restriction. To manage cash flows as more fully described below, ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006 or 2007. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. During 2007 as compared to 2006, ComEd experienced a decrease in operating cash flows primarily due to a change in its payment terms with energy suppliers resulting from downgraded credit 133 Table of Contents ratings and due to under recovery of energy costs, which have been recognized as a regulatory asset. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which ComEd is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 nor additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows will be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Beginning in 2007, ComEd began purchasing electricity through the ICC authorized reverse auction process in order to meet the retail electricity needs of ComEds customers because ComEd does not own any generation. The Settlement Legislation enacted in August 2007 should provide ComEd with greater stability and certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to its customers and reduce the risk of rate freeze or similar legislation being proposed in the near future. ComEd has implemented various programs to assist its residential customers, including a $64 million rate relief package and other initiatives. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of ComEds procurement case and rate relief efforts. Beginning in 2007, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. These incremental bilateral contracts are subject to the credit risk associated with the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations to Generation. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. When Generation sells power, as market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. To the extent Generation does not have enough collateral to cover its risk of payment collection, Generations revenues are at risk. With respect to Generations sales, when market prices decrease, there is a corresponding increase in Generations revenues at risk. Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, collateral postings are one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, ComEd or 134 Table of Contents Ameren, as the case may be, is not required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation is required to post collateral. To the extent Ameren or ComEd do not or cannot pay Generation under the supplier forward contracts, Generation is therefore exposed. Under the terms of the five year financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, if ComEd achieves an investment grade rating from Moodys Investor Service (Moodys) or Standard & Poors (S&P), and then is later downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from ComEd; conversely, should Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from Generation. Should both ComEd rise above investment grade and then subsequently be downgraded below investment grade and Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be required from either party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. Under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Generations collateral policy. Additionally, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken tax return positions to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. In the third quarter of 2007, Exelon received the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) audit report for the taxable period 1999 through 2001 which reflected the full disallowance of the deferral of gain. Exelon disagrees with the IRSs characterization of this transaction and believes its position is justified. Furthermore, the IRS asserted penalties. In the third quarter of 2007, Exelon appealed the disallowance of the deferral of gain as well as the assertion of the penalties to IRS Appeals. This potential tax obligation is significant and an adverse determination could require a significant payment. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding ComEds tax position on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations: 2007 2006 Variance Net income $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 2,845 3,213 (368 ) Income taxes 160 69 91 Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (1,041 ) 141 (1,182 ) Pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments, net (204 ) (180 ) (24 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,496 $ 4,835 $ (339 ) (a) Includes depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, pension and other postretirement benefits expense, other decommissioning related activities, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment charges, pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments and other non cash items. See Note 20 Supplemental Financial Information for additional information on non cash operating activities. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ 4,496 $ 4,835 Generation 2,994 2,550 ComEd 520 987 PECO 980 1,017 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in the respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $50 million to the Exelon Foundation, a nonconsolidated not for profit Illinois corporation. The Exelon Foundation was established in the fourth quarter of 2007 to serve educational and environmental philanthropic purposes. Generation During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed approximately $408 million in 2007. On October 15, 2007, Generation entered into an agreement (Termination Agreement) with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Dominion Resources Inc. to terminate the Power Purchase Agreement dated as of April 17, 1996 (as amended, the PPA) between State Line and Generation relating to the State Line generating facility in Hammond, Indiana, under which Generation controls 515 MW of electric energy and capacity from the State Line facility. Generation became a party to the PPA and various other related agreements by assignment from ComEd as of January 1, 2001. FERC approved the Termination Agreement on October 18, 2007. Further, the conditions to the effectiveness of the Termination Agreement were subsequently satisfied and Generation received a net cash payment from State Line of approximately $228 million, after adjustments, in consideration for the termination of the PPA and the purchase of coal inventories on hand (and in transit) and other assets. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Generation had accounts receivable from ComEd under its supplier forward agreement and the PPA, which expired on December 31, 2006, of $60 million, $197 million and $242 million, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower revenues resulting from the expiration of the PPA with ComEd as well as ComEd making semi monthly payments under its supplier forward contracts in 2007 as opposed to making monthly payments under the PPA in 2006. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Generation had accounts receivable from PECO under the PPA of $121 million, $153 million and $151 million, respectively. During 2007, Generation had net disbursements of counterparty collateral of $(518) million compared to $431 million of net collections of counterparty collateral in 2006. The decrease in cash flows was primarily due to changes in collateral requirements resulting from changes in market prices and increased activity within exchange based markets for energy and fossil fuel. During 2007, Generation had net receipts of approximately $28 million and during 2006 had net payments of $220 million related to option premiums, primarily due to lower activity in 2006 compared to 2007 due to changes in market prices. During 2005, Exelon received a $102 million Federal income tax refund for capital losses generated in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. In the first quarter of 2006, Exelon remitted a $98 million payment to the IRS in connection with the settlement of the IRSs challenge of the timing of the above described 136 Table of Contents deduction. This payment included $6 million of interest which was recognized as interest expense in the first quarter of 2006. Exelon received approximately $92 million on December 13, 2006 related to this same deduction in connection with the filing of its 2005 tax return. ComEd As a result of downgraded credit ratings in early 2007, ComEd is making accelerated semi monthly payments under its supplier forward contracts with its energy suppliers, including Generation. Prior to the credit ratings downgrade, ComEd made monthly payments to its energy suppliers. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, ComEd had accrued payments to Generation for energy purchases of $60 million, $197 million, and $242 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, ComEd had accrued payments to other energy suppliers of $82 million, $10 million, and $12 respectively. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had net under recovered energy costs of $97 million. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. During 2007, ComEds revenue exceeded its cash collections from customers by $103 million. During 2006, ComEds cash collections exceeded its revenue from customers by $6 million. As part of its rate relief programs, at December 31, 2007, ComEd had $13 million deposited in an escrow account classified as restricted cash. As ComEd issues credits to customers and funds various customer programs, ComEd will request reimbursements from the escrow account. As part of the Settlement and its rate relief programs, ComEd contributed approximately $41 million to rate relief programs in 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the rate relief programs. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ (2,909 ) $ (2,762 ) Generation (1,424 ) (1,406 ) ComEd (1,015 ) (894 ) PECO (337 ) (332 ) Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2007 and projected amounts for 2008 are as follows: 2007 2008 Generation (a) $ 1,269 $ 1,599 ComEd 1,040 1,003 PECO 339 394 Other (b) 26 122 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 2,674 $ 3,118 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Projected capital expenditures and other investments by the Registrants are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. 137 Table of Contents Generation. Generations capital expenditures for 2007 reflected additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages) and nuclear fuel. Generation anticipates that its capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEd and PECO. ComEd and PECO are continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that their capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings and the issuance of debt or preferred securities. Other significant investing activities for Exelon, Generation, and PECO for 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $93 million and $92 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Generation During 2007, Generation received approximately $42 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to its retired units. On February 9, 2007, Tamuin International Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Generation, sold its 49.5% ownership interests in TEG and TEP to a subsidiary of AES Corporation for $95 million in cash plus certain purchase price adjustments. On March 31, 2006, Generation entered into an agreement to accelerate the acquisition of Peoples Calumets 30% interest in SCEP. Prior to this agreement, Generation was obligated to purchase Peoples Calumets 30% interest ratably over a 20 year period. This transaction closed on May 31, 2006. Under the agreement, Generation paid Peoples Calumet approximately $47 million for its remaining interest in SCEP. Generation financed this transaction using short term debt and available cash. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ (1,500 ) $ (1,989 ) Generation (1,571 ) (1,050 ) ComEd 547 (96 ) PECO (638 ) (693 ) 138 Table of Contents Debt. Debt activity for 2007 and 2006 by registrant was as follows: Company Issuance of long term debt in 2007 Use of proceeds Generation $700 million of 6.20% Senior Notes, due October 1, 2017 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. Generation $46 million of Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 Will be used to finance a portion of the construction and installation costs of emissions control facilities at Keystone Generating Station ComEd Additional $300 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to refinance outstanding commercial paper and to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility. ComEd $425 million of First Mortgage 6.15% Bonds, Series 106, due September 15, 2017 Used to repay borrowings made under its revolving credit agreement. PECO $175 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.70% Series due March 15, 2037 Used to supplement working capital previously financed through sales of commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuance of long term debt in 2006 Use of proceeds ComEd $325 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to supplement working capital previously used to refinance amounts that ComEd used to repay bonds and notes. ComEd $300 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd Additional $115 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay bonds at maturity. ComEd $345 million of First Mortgage 5.40% Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 Used to repay borrowings under ComEds revolving credit agreement which had been used to repay bonds and to refinance notes. PECO $300 million of First Mortgage Bonds 5.95% Series, due October 1, 2036 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. On January 16, 2008, ComEd issued $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038. The proceeds were used to refinance maturing First Mortgage Bonds and will be used for the early redemption of trust preferred securities. 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2007 Exelon $88 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 ComEd $145 million of 7.625% note payable, due January 15, 2007 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $17 million of variable rate special agreement accounts receivable, due November 2010 ComEd $138 million of 5.63% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due June 25, 2007 (a)(b) ComEd $236 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 PECO $641 million of 6.13% PETT, due September 1, 2008 PECO $30 million of 7.625% PETT, due March 1, 2009 (a) Amount includes $17 million previously reflected in prepaid interest. This amount did not impact ComEds Consolidated Statement of Operations or ComEds Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. (b) ComEd applied $8 million of previously prepaid balances against the long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2006 Exelon $50 million of 6.00 800% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 ComEd $199 million of 4.40% Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, due December 1, 2006 ComEd $95 million of 8.25% First Mortgage Bonds, due October 1, 2006 ComEd $31 million of 8.375% First Mortgage Bonds, due October 15, 2006 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates ComEd $339 million of 5.63% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due June 25, 2007 PECO $522 million of 6.05% PETT, due March 1, 2007 PECO $49 million of 6.13% PETT, due September 1, 2008 Other $15 million of various other debt agreements See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Registrants debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ 1,180 $ 1,071 Generation 2,357 609 PECO 566 506 Exelon paid dividends of $296 million, $296 million, $297 million, and $291 million on March 10, 2007, June 11, 2007, September 10, 2007 and December 10, 2007, respectively, to shareholders of 140 Table of Contents record at the close of business on February 15, 2007, May 15, 2007, August 15, 2007 and November 15, 2007, respectively. On December 19, 2007, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2008. Exelon paid dividends of $267 million, $268 million, $268 million and $268 million on March 10, 2006, June 12, 2006, September 11, 2006 and December 11, 2006, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2006, May 15, 2006, August 15, 2006 and November 15, 2006, respectively. See Dividends section of ITEM 5 for a further discussion of Exelons dividend policy. During 2007 and 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. The decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend after 2007. Share Repurchases. Exelons Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on August 31, 2007 in connection with Exelons value return policy. This policy uses share repurchases from time to time to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. On September 4, 2007, Exelon entered into agreements with two investment banks to repurchase a total of $1.25 billion of Exelons common shares under an accelerated share repurchase arrangement. In September 2007, Exelon received 15.1 million shares in accordance with the accelerated share repurchase agreements, which were recorded as treasury stock, at cost, for $1.17 billion. In 2007, Exelon purchased $1.2 billion of treasury shares under Exelons 2007 share repurchase program. Additionally, in connection with the accelerated share repurchase program, Exelon purchased a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock of $79 million during 2007. In 2006, Exelon purchased $186 million of treasury shares under Exelons 2004 share repurchase plan. On December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500 million of Exelons outstanding common stock. See Note 17 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons share repurchases. Intercompany Money Pool. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool did not change during 2007 and decreased $92 million during 2006. During 2006, ComEd repaid $140 million that it had borrowed from the Exelon intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd suspended participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool decreased $45 million and increased $45 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Short Term Borrowings. During 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO (repaid) issued $(59) million, $(60) million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO repaid $685 million, $311 million, $399 million and $125 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. At December 31, 2007, Exelon and ComEd had $370 million of outstanding borrowings under ComEds credit agreement. In 2006, Exelon terminated its $300 million term loan agreement. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 141 Table of Contents Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 2006 Exelon $ 1,020 $ 910 ComEd 349 339 PECO 671 571 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 2006 Generation $ 54 $ 25 ComEd 28 37 PECO 338 181 Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $215 million and $184 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Exelons other financing activities reflects $97 million and $60 million of excess tax benefits during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon, Generation and PECO meet their short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through borrowings from its credit facility. The Registrants may use credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including meeting short term funding requirements and the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2007, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. In September 2007, Exelon, Generation, and PECO received consent from 26 of 28 of their lenders to extend the terms of their respective credit agreements by one year, representing $6.3 billion of the $6.6 billion of original commitments. The extension took effect on October 26, 2007 and extended the termination date of the credit agreements to October 26, 2012. These revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at the Registrants and to issue letters of credit. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants credit facilities. 142 Table of Contents At December 31, 2007, the Registrants had the following aggregate bank commitments and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower AggregateBankCommitment (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon Corporate $ 1,000 $ 993 $ Generation 5,000 4,866 ComEd 1,000 586 PECO 600 598 246 (a) Represents the total bank commitments to the borrower under credit agreements to which the borrower is a party. (b) Available capacity represents the unused bank commitments under the borrowers credit agreements net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit agreements. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 162.5 basis points for the unsecured facility. The average interest rates on short term debt (facility borrowings and commercial paper) for 2007 for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO were approximately 5.55%, 5.51%, 6.01% and 5.09%, respectively. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and interest on nonrecourse debt. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the year ended December 31, 2007: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2007, the Registrants were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2007, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 44 % 37 % 36 % 28 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 11 5 33 Common equity 43 56 34 Members equity 63 Preferred securities 1 Commercial paper and notes payable 2 3 4 (a) As of December 31, 2007, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $784 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table, but is excluded from the percentages in this footnote), consisted of 42% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 4% notes payable and 53% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. 143 Table of Contents (b) Includes $2.5 billion, $0.6 billion and $1.9 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property consisting of CTCs of ComEd and PECO or mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Subprime Credit Crisis Due to recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets, the fair value of subprime related investments have declined. This decline in fair value has become especially problematic for certain large financial institutions. Therefore, the Registrants performed an assessment of their ability to obtain financing and concluded that they expect to have access to liquidity in the capital markets at reasonable rates. In addition, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively, which are not restricted upon general market conditions. Exelon and Generation have also performed an assessment of their investments held in trusts, which will be used by Exelon to satisfy future obligations under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans and by Generation to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants. Exelon and Generation have determined that a decline in the fair value of the subprime related investments is not expected to be material. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd and PECO had $343 million and $154 million respectively of tax exempt long term debt that is insured by AAA rated bond insurers, namely Ambac Assurance Corporation, Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. and XL Capital Assurance Inc. Due to the exposure that these bond insurers have in connection with recent developments in the subprime credit market, the rating agencies have put these insurers on review for possible downgrade. Fitch has since lowered the credit ratings of Ambac Assurance Corporation from AAA to AA, Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. from AAA to AA, and XL Capital Assurance Inc. from AAA to A. The ComEd and PECO bonds are sold at auction rates that are reset every 7 or 35 days. If there is a loss of confidence in the creditworthiness of the bond insurers, ComEd and PECO could experience a loss in liquidity in the markets for their insured bonds. The instruments under which the bonds are issued allow ComEd and PECO to convert to other short term variable rate structures, term put structures and fixed rate structures. As of December 31, 2007, Generation had $566 million in tax exempt long term debt outstanding in the commercial paper, weekly and daily reset structures, of which $520 million is backed by letters of credit and $46 million is unenhanced. Generation does not have any bonds insured by the aforementioned AAA rated bond insurers. 144 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the intercompany money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons treasurer. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2007 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2007: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2007Contributed (Borrowed) Generation $ 314 $ 127 $ PECO 60 222 BSC 87 165 (9 ) Exelon 113 9 Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2007: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Ba1 B+ BBB Senior secured debt Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper Not prime B B Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F2 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (b) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On March 9, 2007, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) downgraded the debt ratings of ComEds senior secured debt (from BBB+ to BBB), senior unsecured debt (from BBB to BB+) and commercial paper (from F2 to B) due to Fitchs concerns regarding the continued legislative efforts to freeze rates and the prospects for adequate and timely cost recovery through future rate increases. On June 12, 2007, Fitch downgraded PECOs commercial paper rating from F1 to F2. According to Fitch, the ratings do not reflect any deterioration of PECOs liquidity profile; rather, they reflect a change to Fitchs short term and long term rating linkage practices. On August 1, 2007, Fitch placed ComEds ratings under Ratings Watch Positive following the Illinois House and Senate approval of the Settlement Legislation. 145 Table of Contents On August 29, 2007, Fitch removed ComEds ratings under Ratings Watch Positive and upgraded ComEds senior unsecured debt ratings from BB+ to BBB after the Governor signed the Settlement Legislation. On March 26, 2007, Moodys downgraded ComEds senior unsecured debt (from Baa3 to Ba1) and commercial paper (from Prime 3 to Not Prime) due to continued regulatory and political uncertainty in Illinois. On August 29, 2007, Moodys removed ComEds ratings from review for possible downgrade and affirmed its current ratings. ComEds rating outlook from Moodys is stable. On September 21, 2007, Moodys upgraded Exelons and Generations issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings. Exelons issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings were upgraded from Baa2 to Baa1. Generations issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings were upgraded from Baa1 to A3. Exelons and Generations ratings outlooks are stable. On June 1, 2007, S&P downgraded ComEds short term and long term security ratings due to the continued regulatory and political uncertainty encountered by ComEd. ComEds commercial paper rating was downgraded to B from A 3, its senior secured debt rating was downgraded to BBB from BBB and its senior unsecured debt rating was downgraded to B from BB+. On August 29, 2007, S&P removed the Registrants ratings from CreditWatch with negative implications and affirmed their ratings. ComEds rating outlook from S&P is positive. Exelons, Generations and PECOs ratings outlooks are stable. On September 6, 2007, S&P revised its methodology for rating secured debt and upgraded ComEds (from BBB to BBB) and PECOs (from A to A) senior secured debt ratings. None of the Registrants borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under the Registrants credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2007, the Registrants had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. 146 Table of Contents Regulatory Restrictions The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd had $427 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $303 million in new money long term debt financing authority, of which ComEd used $427 million and $23 million, respectively, in January 2008. In December 2007, ComEd filed for an additional $700 million in new money long term debt financing authority from the ICC and expects to receive an order related to this filing during the first quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2007, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and Generations financings. In September 2007, ComEd and PECO filed requests with FERC for short term financing authority in the amounts of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The requested authorizations were approved on December 4, 2007 and expire on December 31, 2009; they replaced the authorizations that were set to expire on December 31, 2007. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC with its market based rate authority. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2006 and 2007, ComEd did not pay any dividend. At December 31, 2007, Exelon had retained earnings of $4.9 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $1,429 million, ComEds retained deficit of $(29) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1,639) million partially offset by $1,610 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends, and PECOs retained earnings of $548 million. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owns interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that own synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45K contains a provision under which the tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. The following table (in dollars) provides the estimated phase out range for 2007: 2007 Beginning of Phase Out Range (a) $ 57 End of Phase Out Range (a) 71 2007 Estimated Average U.S. Crude Oil Wellhead Acquisition Price by First Purchasers 66 (a) The estimated 2007 phase out range is based upon the range stated in the Section 45K of the IRC adjusted for an approximate 3% increase for inflation. 147 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2007, Exelon has estimated the 2007 phase out to be 68%, which has reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $251 million to $81 million for 2007. Exelon anticipates that it will generate approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments. As a result of the phase out of tax credits in 2007 and the timing of the realization of tax benefits earned in prior years, Exelon will collect approximately $200 million of cash in 2008. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 10,510 $ 603 $ 639 $ 2,626 $ 6,642 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 2,551 501 1,505 545 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 6,030 549 1,062 826 3,593 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,089 169 173 76 671 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 504 504 Capital leases 43 2 4 4 33 Operating leases 796 75 133 124 464 Purchase power obligations (c) 4,237 808 663 711 2,055 Fuel purchase agreements 5,333 1,090 1,851 1,340 1,052 Other purchase obligations (c)(d) 857 236 296 215 110 Chicago agreement 2003 (e) 30 6 12 12 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 997 997 Pension minimum funding requirement (f) 353 63 158 132 Other postretirement benefits minimum funding requirement (g) 229 47 97 85 Total contractual obligations $ 33,559 $ 4,149 $ 6,593 $ 6,151 $ 16,162 $ 504 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. (b) As of December 31, 2007, Exelons FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $460 million and $44 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2007. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Does not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (f) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Pension Protection Act of 2006. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2012 are currently not available. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary based upon the status of the plans. (g) These amounts represent PECOs estimated minimum other postretirement benefit contributions required under a PAPUC rate order to fund the cost of a regulated entity under SFAS No. 106. These minimum contributions represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2012 are currently not available. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary based upon the status of the plans. 148 Table of Contents Exelons commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 225 $ 225 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 15 15 Surety bonds (c) 109 31 78 Performance guarantees (d) 303 1 3 3 296 Energy marketing contract guarantees (e) 272 242 25 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (f) 1,710 1,710 Lease guarantees (g) 141 4 137 Chicago agreement 2007 (h) 32 18 11 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (i) 18 4 8 6 Exelon New England guarantees (j) 63 1 2 2 58 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (k) 439 290 125 24 Construction commitments (l) 219 51 104 64 Total commitments $ 3,546 $ 863 $ 272 $ 127 $ 2,284 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2007, Exelon had $143 million of outstanding letters of credit (non debt) issued under its $6.6 billion credit agreements. Guarantees of $15 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $520 million is reflected in long term debt in Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (d) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (e) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (f) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (g) Lease guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure payments on building leases. (h) Chicago agreement 2007 In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $23 million was paid in December 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the City of Chicago Settlement. (i) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago (Chicago) entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, $2 million is included as a liability on Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007. (j) Exelon New England guarantees Mystic Development LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, approximately $12 million and $1 million are included as a noncurrent liability and current liability, respectively, within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Other guarantees associated with Exelon New England included in current liabilities total less than $1 million. (k) See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds and PECOs construction commitments. 149 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment Due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 2,485 $ 10 $ 9 $ 700 $ 1,766 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,199 139 277 224 559 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 38 38 Capital leases 43 2 4 4 33 Operating leases 474 29 51 48 346 Purchase power obligations (c) 4,237 808 663 711 2,055 Fuel purchase agreements 4,818 916 1,667 1,241 994 Other purchase commitments (d) 583 119 210 175 79 Pension minimum funding requirement (e) 65 16 30 19 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 997 997 Total contractual obligations $ 14,939 $ 2,039 $ 2,911 $ 3,122 $ 6,829 $ 38 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. (b) As of December 31, 2007, Generations FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $16 million and $22 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2007. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) These amounts represent Generations estimated minimum pension contributions required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2012 are currently not available. Generation may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary based upon the status of the plans. Generations commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a)(b) $ 142 $ 142 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (c) 15 15 Surety bonds (d) 3 3 Performance guarantees (e) 303 1 3 3 296 Energy marketing contract guarantees (f) 272 242 25 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (g) 1,710 1,710 Exelon New England guarantees (h) 63 1 2 2 58 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (i) 416 277 115 24 Other 6 6 Total commitments $ 2,930 $ 672 $ 135 $ 54 $ 2,069 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. Guarantees of $11 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. 150 Table of Contents (b) The amount includes letters of credit that are posted to ComEd related to the Illinois procurement auction. (c) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $520 million is reflected in long term debt in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (f) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (h) Exelon New England guarantees Mystic Development LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, approximately $12 million and $1 million are included as a noncurrent liability and current liability, respectively, within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Other guarantees associated with Exelon New England included in current liabilities total less than $1 million. (i) See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on Generations rate relief commitments. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $13 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permitted ComEd through December 31, 2006, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. At December 31, 2007, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets related to its nuclear fueled generating facilities was approximately $3.6 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Following the completion of decommissioning activities, any excess nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to the former ComEd and PECO nuclear power plants will be required to be refunded to ComEd or PECO, as appropriate. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held approximately $6.8 billion of investments in trust funds, including unrealized gains at December 31, 2007. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. 151 Table of Contents ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 4,175 $ 122 $ 230 $ 797 $ 3,026 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 635 274 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,552 221 428 370 1,533 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 595 35 52 52 456 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 491 491 Operating leases 128 21 34 30 43 Other purchase commitments (c) 57 40 14 3 Chicago agreement 2003 (d) 30 6 12 12 Total contractual obligations $ 8,663 $ 719 $ 770 $ 1,264 $ 5,419 $ 491 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2007, ComEds FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $403 million and $88 million, respectively. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. Other purchase commitments do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds supplier forward contracts. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. ComEds commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 44 $ 44 $ $ $ Chicago agreement 2007 (b) 32 18 11 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (c) 18 4 8 6 Surety bonds (d) 2 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (e) 23 13 10 Construction commitments (f) 82 31 20 31 Other 5 5 Total commitments $ 206 $ 117 $ 49 $ 40 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Chicago agreement 2007 In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $23 million was paid in December 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the City of Chicago Settlement. (c) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that 152 Table of Contents Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), $2 million is included as a liability on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007. (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds rate relief commitments. (f) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds construction commitments. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 1,629 $ 450 $ $ 629 $ 550 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 1,917 227 1,506 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,077 70 128 108 771 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 494 134 120 24 216 FIN 48 liability (b) 2 2 Operating leases 129 19 38 38 34 Fuel purchase agreements (c) 515 174 184 99 58 Other purchase commitments (d) 130 31 37 32 30 Total contractual obligations $ 5,893 $ 1,105 $ 2,013 $ 930 $ 1,843 $ 2 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2007, PECOs FIN 48 liability was $2 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain FIN 48 liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECOs commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 31 $ 31 $ $ $ Surety bonds (b) 25 25 Construction commitments (c) 137 20 84 33 Other 2 2 Total commitments $ 195 $ 78 $ 84 $ 33 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) PECO maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (c) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on PECOs construction commitments. 153 Table of Contents For additional information about: commercial paper, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FIN 48 liabilities, see Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel obligations, see Notes 13 and 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Variable Interest Entities Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. The financing trusts of ComEd, namely ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, and the financing trusts of PECO, namely PECO Trust III, PECO Trust IV and PETT, are not consolidated in Exelons, ComEds and PECOs financial statements pursuant to the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities and FIN 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46 R). Amounts of $0.6 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it sold an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable through November 2010. At December 31, 2007, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, (SFAS No. 140). At December 31, 2006, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $208 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, and a $17 million interest in accounts receivable collected through customer payment agreements (special agreement receivables), which was accounted for as a long term note payable. During 2007, the agreement was amended to eliminate special agreement accounts receivable from the eligible receivables sale pool and certain recourse provisions relating to special agreement 154 Table of Contents receivables. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for the sold receivables. The agreement requires PECO to maintain eligible receivables at least equivalent to the $225 million purchased interest. If eligible receivables are below this level, the agreement requires PECO to hold cash in escrow until the requirement is met. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, PECO met this requirement and no cash deposits were required. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 155 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Corporation The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation has the most exposure to commodity price risk. PECO has transferred most of its commodity price risk to Generation through a PPA that expires at the end of 2010. PECO relies on the PAPUCs purchased gas cost clause to mitigate gas price risk associated with market variability. ComEd has transferred most of its near term commodity price risk to generating companies through the former Illinois auction process and the significant portion of its longer term commodity price risk to Generation through the five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. Furthermore, the Settlement Legislation provides for the pass through of procurement costs by ComEd to its customers. Exelon In 2005, Exelon entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. Including the related mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities increased (reduced) Exelons net income by $87 million, $(24) million and $81 million during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net income or net losses from interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities are reflected in Exelons Consolidated Statements of Operations within income taxes, operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates and other, net. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to consolidated Financial Statements for further information in regards to synthetic fuel activity. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Non trading derivative contracts may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and they are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case the effective portion of those changes are recorded in OCI, and subsequently are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that 156 Table of Contents do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation has hedges in place for 2008 and 2009 and, with the ComEd financial swap contract, also for 2010 into 2013. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 2008, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This economic hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. A portion of Generations hedge may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a 10% reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity would be a decrease of less than $60 million in net income. This sensitivity assumes that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2007 resulted in a pre tax gain of $42 million, which represented a net unrealized mark to market gain of $34 million and realized gain of $8 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $190,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for year ended December 31, 2007 of $6,298 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officer (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance 157 Table of Contents sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total (a) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2006 $ (540 ) Total change in fair value during 2006 of contracts recorded in earnings 41 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 66 Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 146 Effective portion of changes in fair value during 2006 recorded in OCI 789 Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (3 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets at December 31, 2006 499 Total change in fair value during 2007 of contracts recorded in earnings (29 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (106 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI (15 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value during 2007 recorded in OCI (1,310 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (1 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2007 $ (962 ) (a) Includes $456 million of changes during 2007 in the fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd. The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2007 and 2006: December 31, 2007 (a) December 31, 2006 Current assets $ 445 $ 1,408 Noncurrent assets 113 171 Total mark to market energy contract assets 558 1,579 Current liabilities (612 ) (1,003 ) Noncurrent liabilities (908 ) (77 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (1,520 ) (1,080 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (962 ) $ 499 (a) Includes the fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd, with current liabilities including $13 million and noncurrent liabilities including $443 million, all related to Generations five year financial swap contract with ComEd. The fair value balances are eliminated upon consolidation. The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2007 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 158 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, the table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within (in millions) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ (41 ) $ (67 ) $ (9 ) $ $ $ $ (117 ) Prices provided by external sources (132 ) (198 ) (32 ) (2 ) (2 ) (1 ) (367 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods (13 ) (57 ) (103 ) (142 ) (99 ) (42 ) (456 ) Total $ (186 ) $ (322 ) $ (144 ) $ (144 ) $ (101 ) $ (43 ) $ (940 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ (10 ) $ (13 ) $ $ (1 ) $ $ $ (24 ) Prices provided by other external sources 44 (3 ) (5 ) 1 37 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (14 ) (21 ) (35 ) Total $ 20 $ (37 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ $ (22 ) (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. Includes $456 of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations andHedging Activities (a) Interest Rate andOtherHedges Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2006 $ (314 ) $ (4 ) $ (318 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value 476 1 477 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 88 88 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2006 250 (3 ) 247 Effective portion of changes in fair value (789 ) 3 (786 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income (9 ) (9 ) Accumulated OCI derivative gain (loss) at December 31, 2007 $ (548 ) $ $ (548 ) (a) Includes $275 million, net of taxes, of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd. 159 Table of Contents ComEd ComEds energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Derivative contracts may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case changes in fair value are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. With the exception of ComEds financial swap contract with Generation, changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. Since the financial swap contract was deemed prudent by the Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring ComEd of full cost recovery in rates, the change in the fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction (see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the derivative wholesale contracts of less than $1 million was recorded on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet as a current liability. The following detailed presentation of the energy related derivative activities at ComEd is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys CCRO. The following table provides detail on changes in ComEds mark to market net liability or asset balance sheet position from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from accumulated OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in regulatory assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2006 $ Total change in fair value during 2006 of contracts recorded in earnings (8 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 3 Changes in fair value recorded in OCI (6 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2006 $ (11 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 4 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI 3 Changes in fair value recorded in OCI 4 Changes in fair value energy derivative with Generation recorded in regulatory liabilities 456 Total mark to market energy contract net assets at December 31, 2007 $ 456 160 Table of Contents The following table details the balance sheet classification of ComEds mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31,2007 (a) December 31,2006 Current assets (a) $ 13 $ Noncurrent assets (a) 443 Total mark to market energy contract assets 456 Current liabilities (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 456 $ (11 ) (a) Includes the fair value of energy derivative asset with Generation, with current assets including $13 million and noncurrent assets including $443 million, all related to the ComEds five year financial swap contract with Generation. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2007 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of the derivative contracts ComEd holds. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. The following table provides the maturity, by year, of ComEds net assets/liabilities associated with the Generation swap, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities Within Total FairValue 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Prices based on model or other valuation methods $ 13 $ 57 $ 103 $ 142 $ 99 $ 42 $ 456 Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation Generations PPA with ComEd expired at the end of 2006. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren auctions. Beginning in 2007 and as a result of the auctions, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. Although Settlement Legislation passed in Illinois during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions, Generation is expected to participate in the alternative competitive procurement process and will continue to have credit risk in connection with contracts for sale of electricity resulting from the alternative competitive procurement process. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment; therefore, Generations credit risk profile has changed based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. For additional information on the Illinois auction and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation attempts to enter into enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with its counterparties, which reduces Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. Typically, 161 Table of Contents each enabling agreement is for a specific commodity and so, with respect to each individual counterparty, netting is limited to transactions involving that specific commodity product, except where master netting agreements exist with a counterparty that allows for cross product netting. In addition to payment netting language in the enabling agreement, the credit department establishes credit limits and letter of credit requirements for each counterparty, which are defined in each contract. Counterparty credit limits are based on an internal credit review that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. To the extent that a counterpartys credit limit and letter of credit thresholds are exceeded, the counterparty is required to post collateral with Generation as specified in each enabling agreement. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. See the Collateral section below for additional information. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates, accounts receivable exposure, or credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs and Independent System Operators (ISOs), which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2007 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 356 $ 31 $ 325 2 $ 141 Non investment grade 22 1 21 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 9 9 Internally rated non investment grade 21 2 19 Total $ 408 $ 34 $ 374 2 $ 141 Rating as of December 31, 2006 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,005 $ 268 $ 737 1 $ 95 Non investment grade 53 9 44 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 10 1 9 Internally rated non investment grade 4 3 1 Total $ 1,072 $ 281 $ 791 1 $ 95 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2007 Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 355 $ 1 $ $ 356 Non investment grade 22 22 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 3 6 9 Internally rated non investment grade 21 21 Total $ 401 $ 7 $ $ 408 162 Table of Contents Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, neither ComEd nor Ameren is required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation may be required to post collateral. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on contracted clearing prices related to the ComEd and Ameren auctions. Under the terms of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, if ComEd achieves investment grade ratings from Moodys or S&P, and then is later downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from ComEd; conversely, should Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from Generation. Should both ComEd rise above investment grade and then subsequently be downgraded below investment grade and Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be required from either party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. Under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation. At December 31, 2007, there was no collateral required to be posted by Generation to ComEd related to the five year financial swap contract. As of December 31, 2007, Generation had $272 million of collateral deposit payments being held by counterparties and Generation was holding $1 million of collateral deposits received from counterparties. RTOs and ISOs. Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in, all or some of, the following established, real time energy markets that are administered by: PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions 163 Table of Contents be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generation, ComEd and PECOs financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will continue to monitor the impact of the power prices on its customer payment practices as it relates to its provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd will continue to monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. The Settlement Legislation (discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 2.1% of its electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 8.3% of its retail electric and gas revenues. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets included a $553 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2007. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $939 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. 164 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2007, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. As of December 31, 2007, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in $4 million, $2 million, $1 million and $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs, respectively, pre tax earnings. During 2006, ComEd settled its interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million for a cash payment of approximately $1 million. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2007, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the values of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $415 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. Exelon and Generation maintain trust assets associated with defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. Certain investments within the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and pension and other postretirement benefit plans hold underlying securities in subprime mortgage related assets. The fair value of these subprime related investments have declined as a result of recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets. Exelon expects that market conditions will continue to evolve, and that the fair value of Exelons investments, including those that are subprime related, may frequently change. Exelon performed an assessment of its investments and believes that declines in the fair value of its nuclear decommissioning trust funds and pension and other postretirement benefit plans due to its relatively small exposure to subprime assets will not be significant. 165 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility that Generation currently utilizes to support is commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 166 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 167 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2007 compared 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had access to an unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had borrowed $370 million from its unsecured credit facility since its access to the commercial paper market is limited due to its current credit ratings. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, ComEds working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd intends to refinance maturing long term debt in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd has the capacity to issue approximately $2.8 billion of first mortgage bonds as a result of replacing its secured credit facility, which contained a restriction on a portion of such bond issuances, with an unsecured credit facility, which does not contain that restriction. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2006 or 2007. During 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006, ComEd experienced a decrease in operating cash flows primarily due to a change in its payment terms with energy suppliers resulting from downgraded credit ratings and due to under recovery of energy costs, which have been recognized as a regulatory asset. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which ComEd is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 or 168 Table of Contents additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 169 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to an unsecured revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 170 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 171 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Exelon Liquidity and Capital Resources, may adversely affect the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. While each of the Registrants believes it has identified and discussed the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect its performance or financial condition. General Business The following risk factors may adversely impact several or all of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Exelons generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated. Fundamental changes in regulation could disrupt Exelons business plans and adversely affect its operations and financial results. Substantially all aspects of the businesses of Exelon and its subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation. Further, Exelons operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of its generation business to sell power at market based rates, as opposed to cost based or other similarly regulated rates, and the ability of its energy delivery businesses to recover their costs for purchased power and their costs of distribution of power to their customers. In its business planning and in the management of its operations, Exelon must address the effects of regulation of its businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking jurisdictions and taxing authorities. In particular, state and Federal legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets exceed the marginal cost of operating nuclear plants, claims that this difference is evidence that the competitive model is not working, and resulting calls for some form of re regulation, the elimination of marginal pricing, the imposition of a generation tax, or some other means of reducing the earnings of Generation and its competitors. Although Exelon does not agree with this position, the effectiveness of Exelon in meeting these challenges affects its operating results and cash flows and the value of its generation and energy delivery assets. Fundamental changes in the nature of the regulation of Exelons businesses would require changes in its business planning models and could adversely affect its operating results and the value of its assets. 41 Table of Contents The Settlement Legislation enacted in Illinois in 2007 providing rate relief to Illinois electric customers and requiring other changes in the electric industry in lieu of harmful alternatives such as rate freezes, caps, or a tax on generation, could be reversed or modified by new legislation that could be harmful to ComEd and Generation. The Settlement Legislation enacted in Illinois in August 2007 contemplates approximately $1 billion of rate relief to Illinois electric customers. The Settlement Legislation will also require several other changes to the electric industry in Illinois, including the creation of a new state power agency, an alternative method of purchasing power for consumers and a mandated increase in energy efficiency and renewable energy standards. This Settlement Legislation was the result of the Settlement reached by ComEd, Generation, and other utilities and generators in Illinois with various representatives of the State of Illinois concluding months of extensive discussions and following various bills that had been proposed by the Illinois House of Representatives and Senate in an attempt to address higher electric bills experienced in Illinois since the end of the legislatively mandated transition and rate freeze at the end of 2006. The Settlement Legislation addressed those concerns without implementing a rate freeze, generation tax, or other alternative measures that Exelon believes would have been harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. For more information regarding potential risks associated with such legislation, see Illinois Settlement Agreement and Retail Electric Services in Item 1 of this Form 10 K. Although the Settlement Legislation allows the contributors to the rate relief to terminate their funding commitments and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief in the event that, prior to August 1, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly passes legislation that freezes or reduces electric rates of or imposes a generation tax on parties to the Settlement, there is no guarantee that such legislation will not be passed and enacted in Illinois. The experience in Illinois in 2007 suggests a risk that the Illinois General Assembly may threaten extreme measures again in the future in an attempt to force electric utilities and generators to make further concessions. Such legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on ComEd and Generations results of operations and cash flows. Results of operations may be negatively affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. These medical benefit costs are increasing at a rate that is significantly greater than the rate of general inflation. Additionally, it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate which is higher than anticipated by the Registrants. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs, pension costs, or other increasing costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants and under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. For example, certain investments within the trusts hold underlying securities in subprime mortgage related assets. Due to recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets, the fair value of these subprime related investments may decline. Exelon expects that market conditions will continue to evolve, and that the fair value of Exelons subprime related investments may frequently change. A decline in the market value of the assets, as was experienced in prior periods, may increase the funding requirements of the obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants and under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit 42 Table of Contents plans. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, their results of operation and financial position could be negatively affected. Exelons holding company structure could limit its ability to pay dividends. Exelon is a holding company with no material assets other than the investment in its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2006 and 2007, ComEd did not pay any dividend. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. As a result of the Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. These standards, which previously were being applied on a voluntary basis, became mandatory on June 18, 2007. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages. In addition, the 43 Table of Contents Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. Generation will incur material costs of compliance if regulations under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act require retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at power plants owned by Generation. In addition, the amounts of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to operate the plant after the Section 316(b) matter is ultimately resolved. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to contribute to a fund with a material contribution to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if federal and or state legislation is adopted to address climate change. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. Select northeast and mid Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and or state legislation to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon and Generation may incur material costs to either further limit the GHG emissions from its operations or in procuring emission allowance credits. For more information regarding climate change, see Global Climate Change in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. War, acts and threats of terrorism, natural disaster and other significant events may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. Exelon does not know the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Exelons operations. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect Exelons operations and its ability to raise capital. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Exelons revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect Exelons results of operations and its 44 Table of Contents ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in increased costs. Additionally, Exelon is affected by changes in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes, storms and other natural disasters in its service territory and throughout the U.S. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive which could result in increased costs including supply chain costs. See Environmental Regulation in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K for further information. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelons 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like kind exchange transaction. If the IRS is successful in its challenge, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that becomes currently payable. As of December 31, 2007, Exelons and ComEds potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $992 million. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, it could negatively affect Exelons and ComEds results of operations by up to $167 million (after tax) related to interest expense. The timing of the final resolution of this matter is unknown. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected, and tax credits, including the potential phase out of tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal, in the financial statements. Exelon has not recorded a valuation allowance for $15 million of deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. See Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Increases in taxes and fees. Due to the revenue needs of the states and jurisdictions in which the Registrants operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. In August 2007, the Governor of Illinois signed Illinois SB 1544 into law, which became effective January 1, 2008. SB 1544 provides for market based sourcing of the generation and sale of electricity for Illinois income tax purposes. This legislation will affect the method in which sales of electricity are apportioned in the determination of Illinois income tax. The language in SB 1544 is broad based and undefined and expressly provides that the sourcing of electricity may be subject to rules prescribed by the Illinois Department of Revenue. Based on the limited statutory definitions and legislative intent available at this time, Exelon cannot reasonably estimate the impact on its Illinois income tax. The Illinois Department of Revenue is expected to issue guidance implementing this legislation. As guidance is released, Exelon will further assess the impact that SB 1544 may have on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. On January 13, 2008, Illinois enacted SB 783 amending the language of SB 1544 to expressly provide that the Department of Revenue shall establish utility sourcing regulations. 45 Table of Contents Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon and its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance of these guaranteed obligations by the third parties, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results or financial condition of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding guarantees. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. The Registrants may continue to make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. It is possible that FERC or the state public utility commissions may impose certain other restrictions on the investments that the Registrants may make. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. Generation Market Transition Risks Due to its dependence on its two most significant customers, ComEd and PECO, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of either of its most significant customers. Generation currently provides power under supplier forward contracts with ComEd to supply up to 35% of ComEds electricity supply requirements and a PPA with PECO to meet 100% of PECOs electricity supply requirements. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds and PECOs continued payments under these supplier forward contracts and the PPA and would be adversely affected by negative events affecting these agreements, including the non performance or a change in the creditworthiness of either ComEd or PECO. A default by ComEd or PECO under these agreements would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. 46 Table of Contents Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generations physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generations cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation based taxes and contributions to rate relief packages. Generations business may be negatively affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. RTOs. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, and to purchase power to meet obligations not provided by its own resources. These wholesale markets allow Generation to take advantage of market price opportunities but also expose Generation to market risk. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features, which may create trading barriers among the markets. Approximately 83% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations will depend on (1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the development of competitive wholesale power markets, such as the PJM market, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market, such as, for example, withdrawal of significant participants from the regional wholesale markets. Generation could also be adversely affected by efforts of state legislatures and regulatory authorities to respond to the concerns of consumers or others about rising costs of energy that are reflected through wholesale markets. Competitive Electric Generation Suppliers. Because retail customers in both Pennsylvania and Illinois can switch from PECO or ComEd to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generations obligation to supply PECO with all of the energy PECO needs to fulfill its default service obligation and to provide the supply needed to serve Generations share of the ComEd load is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is the ability of retail customers to switch to competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from ComEd or PECO than Generation anticipates, the PECO and or ComEd load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to 47 Table of Contents market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more of such customers switch than Generation anticipates, the PECO and /or ComEd load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, caused Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal legislative or regulatory actions that could weaken competition in the wholesale markets or affect pricing rules in the RTO markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which escalated during 2006 as retail rate freezes expired and prices of electricity increased with rising fuel prices, is expected to continue in 2008. A number of advocacy groups have urged FERC to reconsider its support of competitive wholesale electricity markets and require the RTOs to revise the rules governing the RTO administered markets. In particular, the advocacy groups oppose the RTOs use of a single clearing price for electricity sold in the RTO markets utilizing locational marginal pricing. FERC convened a series of public conferences during 2007 to address the issues surrounding electric competition. FERC issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANOPR) on Wholesale Competition in Regions with Organized Electric Markets on June 22, 2007. Exelon filed comments on September 14, 2007. On December 17, 2007, a number of advocacy groups filed comments requesting that the scope of the ANOPR be expanded to address the current structure and practices of the RTO administered markets, which the advocacy groups contend have led to unjust and unreasonable rates. The outcome of this FERC rulemaking process could significantly affect Generations results of operations. In addition, on June 21, 2007, FERC issued a Final Rule on Market Based Rates for Wholesale Sales of Electric Energy, Capacity and Ancillary Services by Public Utilities. FERC provided clarification to the Final Rule on December 14, 2007. The Final Rule made a number of changes in FERCs market based rate analysis and requires a market power update filing by Generation, ComEd and PECO, which was made on January 14, 2008. The application of the Final Rule is not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations, although the longer term impact will depend on how FERC applies the Final Rule as its enforcement of the rule matures with time and experience. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to competition in the energy industry. Generations financial performance depends in part on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. The new generating facilities of these market entrants may be more efficient than Generations facilities. Additionally, the introduction of new technologies could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. Generations financial growth depends in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. As the demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and the Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Further, construction of new generating 48 Table of Contents facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Nuclear Operations Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 24 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 24 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the AmerGen plants and the co owned plants, was 9 in 2007 with 12 planned for 2008. The projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation will increase in 2008 compared to 2007 by approximately $62 million as Generation continues to invest in equipment upgrades to ensure safe reliable operations and as a result of two additional planned refueling outages at nuclear plants operated by Generation in 2008 compared to 2007. Total operating and maintenance expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation are expected to increase by approximately $99 million in 2008 compared to 2007 as a result of inflationary cost increases as well as the aforementioned two additional planned refueling outages in 2008 compared to 2007. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may adversely affect Generations ability to fully decommission the nuclear units. 49 Table of Contents Environmental risk. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations establishing a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing generating stations requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Oyster Creek, Salem or other Exelon power plants, this could result in material costs of compliance. In addition, the amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to operate the plant after the 316(b) matter is ultimately resolved. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. Should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by others, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plants output, Generation is dependent on the operational performance of the co owner operator. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generations, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $10.76 billion limit for a single incident. 50 Table of Contents Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations portion of the NEIL distribution for 2007 was $43 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Operations. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four retired units) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of current licensed life. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to provide other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Other Operating Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal and natural gas to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained through long term uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Coal is procured for coal fired plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. Natural gas is procured for gas fired plants through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. It is not possible to predict the ultimate cost or availability of these commodities. Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. A significant portion of Generations power portfolio is used to provide power under a long term PPA with PECO and supplier forward contracts with ComEd. To the extent portions of the portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent its portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of ComEd and PECO under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity under long term and short term contracts in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation 51 Table of Contents compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation that are not used to meet its long term supply commitments, including its commitments to ComEd and PECO, are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity likely reflects the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, energy or fuel will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell power in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, the retail businesses subject Generation to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities that serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Risk of Credit Downgrades. Generations trading business is required to meet credit quality standards. If Generation were to lose its investment grade credit rating or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. If Generation had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2007, it would have been required to provide approximately $830 million in collateral. Immature Markets. The wholesale spot markets are evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. 52 Table of Contents Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. Power Teams power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generations business is capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. For example, Generation is considering building a new nuclear plant in southeast Texas and plans to expend substantial resources to the evaluation, development and permitting of the project, site acquisition and long lead procurement; substantial additional resources would be required for the construction of the plant if a decision is made to build. Achieving the intended benefits of a large capital project of this type is subject to a number of uncertainties. Generations results of operations could be adversely affected if Generation were unable to effectively manage its capital projects. ComEd Exelons and ComEds goodwill may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. Exelon and ComEd both had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2007 in connection with the PECO/Unicom merger. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, such as the impairments recorded during 2006 and 2005, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. There is a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at ComEd, and at Exelon, in 2008 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, market prices for power, results of ComEds rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results but will have no impact to either Exelons or ComEds cash flows. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. 53 Table of Contents PECO PECO could be subject to higher transmission operating costs in the future as a result of PJMs regional transmission expansion plan (RTEP) and the rate design between PJM and MISO. In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJMs RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint and that costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. FERC stated that PJMs stakeholders should develop a standard method for allocating costs of new transmission facilities lower than 500 kV. PECO cannot estimate the longer term impact on its results of operations and cash flows because of the uncertainties relating to what new facilities will be built and the cost of building those facilities. In 2007, PECO and almost all other transmission owners in PJM and the Midwest ISO (MISO), as directed by a FERC order issued in 2004, filed with FERC to continue the existing transmission rate design between PJM and MISO. Other transmission owners and certain other parties have filed protests urging FERC to reject the filing. On January 31, 2008, FERC accepted the filing. An additional complaint was filed asking FERC to substitute a rate design that allocates the costs of all existing and new transmission facilities at 345 kV and above across PJM and MISO. On January 31, 2008, FERC denied the complaint. PECO cannot predict the outcome of any possible requests for rehearing or appeals of these proceedings nor the impact that the ultimate rate design will have on its transmission operating costs. PECO may be subject to the risk of a legislative or regulatorily mandated requirement to purchase Philadelphia Gas Works (PGW). PGW is a municipal gas utility owned by the City of Philadelphia that provides service almost exclusively within Philadelphia. A Pennsylvania state legislator submitted legislation to the Pennsylvania General Assembly that would provide the PAPUC with the authority to investigate PGWs fitness to provide gas service and, if deemed unfit, to require a qualified public utility to purchase PGWs gas assets. If such legislation is enacted, PECO, with a natural gas service territory contiguous to and an electric service territory that includes Philadelphia, could be subject to a proceeding in which efforts are made to require PECO to purchase PGWs gas assets. While PECO believes that such a forced purchase would be unlawful, such a proceeding could expose PECO potentially to significant economic and political risk. The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers may decrease PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Gas rates charged to customers are comprised primarily of purchased natural gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to PECO, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to PECO. Purchased natural gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customers bill and may be adjusted quarterly, are designed for PECO to recover the cost of the natural gas commodity and pipeline transportation and storage services that PECO procures to service its customers. PECOs cash flows can be impacted by differences between the time period when natural gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. When purchased natural gas cost charges increase substantially reflecting higher natural gas procurement costs incurred by PECO, customer usage may decrease, resulting in lower distribution charges and lower profit margins for PECO. In addition, increased purchased natural gas cost charges to customers also may result in increased bad debt expense from an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances. 54 Table of Contents ComEd and PECO The following risk factors separately apply to both ComEd and PECO as further noted below. Rising rates or the expectation of rising rates can stimulate legislative or regulatory action aimed at restricting or controlling those rate increases, which can create uncertainty affecting planning, costs and results of operations. Large increases in utility rates, such as may follow a period of frozen or capped rates, can generate pressure on legislators and regulators to take steps to control those rates. Such efforts can include some form of rate increase moderation, reduction or freeze. The public discourse and debate can increase uncertainty associated with the regulatory process, the level of rates and revenues, and the ability to recover costs. Such uncertainty restricts flexibility and resources, given the need to plan and ensure available financial resources. Such uncertainty also affects the costs of doing business. Such costs may be reflected in reduced liquidity, as suppliers tighten payment terms, and increased costs of financing, as lenders demand increased compensation or collateral security to accept such risks. Legislators or regulators may respond to current or anticipated increases in utility rates by enacting laws or regulations aimed at restricting or controlling those rates that may adversely affect the utilitys ability to recover its costs, maintain adequate liquidity and address capital requirements. Legislators and regulators may focus on immediate forms of rate relief, such as rate increase moderation or freezes and may pursue initiatives that affect the manner in which utilities procure energy, recover costs or interact with customers. Those measures could include the imposition or continuation of rate caps, rate moderation, installation of smart metering technology, fees on consumption, and various measures promoting conservation, energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. Such measures may reduce revenues, increase operating costs and mandate initiatives requiring additional capital investments or changes in the way utilities conduct business. These initiatives can be accompanied by additional costs for which recovery may not be certain as well as incentives for compliance and penalties for noncompliance. Restrictions affecting rates and revenues, and the ability to recover costs, could affect liquidity and the ability to maintain reliable delivery systems and make capital improvements. Inadequate cost recovery could lead to lowered credit ratings, reduced access to capital markets, increased financing costs, lower flexibility due to constrained financial resources, collateral security requirements, and possible bankruptcy. Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including rates for the procurement of electricity and the recovery of MGP remediation costs. 55 Table of Contents In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are typically subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators for establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations, in the case of ComEd, for ComEds customers with demand of 100kW or less who have not chosen a competitive electric generation supplier and, for a limited period, for certain customers with higher demands, and, in the case of PECO, for all PECO customers, to provide electricity service to certain groups of customers in its service area who choose to obtain their electricity from the utility. The ultimate outcome of these regulatory actions will have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, lengthy proceedings and time delays in implementing new rates relative to when costs are actually incurred could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. The impact of not meeting the criteria of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71) could be material to ComEd and PECO. As of December 31, 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd, and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2007, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $2.9 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2007, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $3.0 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against other comprehensive income (before taxes) of up to $1.2 billion and $74 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which would be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities also could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 1, 4, 8 and 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Increases in customer rates and the impact of other economic downturns may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer balances for ComEd and PECO. Future recoverability of any additional uncollectible customer balances is subject to regulatory proceedings. ComEds customer rates for delivery service and procurement of electricity increased in 2007 with the end of the legislatively mandated transition and rate freeze period in Illinois. The Settlement 56 Table of Contents Legislation prohibits utilities from terminating electric service to an Illinois residential space heating customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. With respect to PECO, its gas rates may change quarterly based on market conditions which may lead to higher prices. Additionally, PECOs electric rates have increased in recent years as permitted under the 1998 restructuring settlement and the related PECO/Unicom Merger Settlement Agreements. Due to increased rates, limitations on service termination, and the future collection of deferred balances, ComEd and PECO may experience a greater amount of uncollectible customer balances. Mandatory energy conservation and RPS legislation could negatively affect the costs and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. Federal legislation mandating specific energy conservation measures or changes to existing laws requiring the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO if timely recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for renewable energy credits and purchased power as well as significant increases in capital expenditures. There is no certainty that ComEd or PECO would be permitted sufficient or timely recovery of related costs in rates. Furthermore, energy conservation measures could lead to a decline in energy consumption and ultimately the revenues of ComEd and PECO. ComEd and PECO will continue to monitor RPS and energy conservation developments at the Federal and state levels. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the transmission and delivery of electricity and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. The effects of weather and the related impact on electricity and gas usage may decrease ComEds and PECOs results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter 57 Table of Contents heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd and PECO typically report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs operations. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. ComEds and PECOs results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if they are unable to effectively manage their own respective capital projects, if they are unable to raise the necessary capital, or if they do not receive full recovery of their own respective capital costs through future regulatory proceedings in a timely manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2007: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Nuclear (d) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,065 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,740 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,295 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,139 (e) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,303 (e) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 981 (e) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,969 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (e) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Intermediate 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Intermediate 588 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 (continued on next page) 58 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 870 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 395 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (e) Mountain Creek 6, 7 Dallas, TX 2 Gas Peaking 240 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 565 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (e) 4,734 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 386 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 29 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 152 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 116 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 13 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 296 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,449 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (e) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 3 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 14 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 572 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 1,642 Total 124 24,808 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of low efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels and pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. 59 Table of Contents (c) For nuclear stations, except Salem, capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations, including Salem, reflect a summer rating. (d) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (e) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities, level of water supplies and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ComEd ComEds electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that ComEd owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. ComEd believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements, licenses and franchise rights; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution ComEds higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2007 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 765,000 90 345,000 2,621 138,000 2,872 69,000 149 ComEds electric distribution system includes 43,335 circuit miles of overhead lines and 35,326 cable miles of underground lines. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. ComEd maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd. 60 Table of Contents PECO PECOs electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that PECO owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. PECO believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements and licenses; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution PECOs higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2007 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 500,000 188 (a) 230,000 541 138,000 156 69,000 182 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,933 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,260 cable miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs natural gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2007: Pipeline Miles Transportation 31 Distribution 6,654 Service piping 5,472 Total 12,157 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first and refunding mortgage bonds are issued. PECO maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of PECO. 61 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 62 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 31, 2008, there were 661,220,392 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 143,410 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2007 2006 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 86.83 $ 82.60 $ 79.38 $ 72.31 $ 63.62 $ 61.98 $ 58.86 $ 59.90 Low price 73.76 64.73 68.67 58.74 57.83 56.74 51.13 52.79 Close 81.64 75.36 72.60 68.71 61.89 60.54 56.83 52.90 Dividends 0.440 0.440 0.440 0.440 0.400 0.400 0.400 0.400 The attached table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Exelon of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 1 October 31, 2007 6,151 $ 76.41 (b ) November 1 November 30, 2007 6,711 82.31 (b ) Total 12,862 79.49 (b ) (a) Shares other than those purchased as a part of a publicly announced plan primarily represent restricted shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares. (b) In April 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program that allows Exelon to repurchase shares of its common stock on a periodic basis in the open market. The share repurchase program is intended to mitigate, in part, the dilutive effect of shares issued under Exelons employee stock option plan and Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The aggregate shares of common stock repurchased pursuant to the program cannot exceed the economic benefit received after January 1, 2004 due to stock option exercises and share purchases pursuant to Exelons ESPP. The economic benefit consists of direct cash proceeds from purchases of stock and tax benefits associated with exercises of stock options. The 2004 share repurchase program has no specified limit and no specified termination date. In addition, on August 31, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $1.25 billion of Exelons outstanding common stock. As part of its value return policy, Exelon uses share repurchases from time to time to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. The related accelerated share repurchase agreement includes a pricing collar, which establishes a minimum and maximum number of shares that can be repurchased. On December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500 million of Exelons outstanding common stock. See Note 17 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons share repurchase programs. 63 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below illustrates a five year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Exelon Corporation common stock, as compared with the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Utility Index for the period 2002 through 2007. This performance chart assumes: $100 invested on December 31, 2002 in Exelon Corporation common stock, in the S&P 500 Stock Index and in the S&P Utility Index; and All dividends are reinvested. Generation As of January 31, 2008, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. ComEd As of January 31, 2008, there were outstanding 127,016,519 shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were held by Exelon. At January 31, 2008, in addition to Exelon, there were 269 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. 64 Table of Contents PECO As of January 31, 2008, there were outstanding 170,478,507 shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. While these restrictions may limit the absolute amount of dividends that a particular subsidiary may pay, Exelon does not believe these limitations are materially limiting because, under these limitations, the subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends sufficient to meet Exelons actual cash needs. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing II and ComEd Financing III (the Financing Trusts) that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event 65 Table of Contents that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to the Financing Trusts; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of the Financing Trusts; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2007, such capital was $2.8 billion and amounted to about 32 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PECO Energy Capital, L.P. (PEC L.P.) or PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. At December 31, 2007, Exelon had retained earnings of $4.9 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $1,429 million, ComEds retained deficit of $(29) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1,639) million, partially offset by $1,610 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends and PECOs retained earnings of $548 million. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2007 and 2006: 2007 2006 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 $ 0.400 The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2007 2006 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 261 $ 1,431 $ 370 $ 295 $ 165 $ 122 $ 157 $ 165 PECO 108 178 121 155 134 117 135 116 On December 19, 2007, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 15, 2008. This dividend declaration was made by the Exelon Board of Directors under a value return policy that established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. The value return policy contemplates the use of share repurchases from time to time, when authorized by the Board of Directors, to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. During 2007 and 2006, ComEd did not pay a dividend. This decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined 66 Table of Contents Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend after 2007. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 18,916 $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 14,133 $ 15,148 Operating income 4,668 3,521 2,724 3,499 2,409 Income from continuing operations $ 2,726 $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 1,870 $ 892 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 10 2 14 (29 ) (99 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,736 1,592 965 1,841 793 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (42 ) 23 112 Net income (a), (b) $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 1,864 $ 905 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 4.03 $ 2.35 $ 1.40 $ 2.79 $ 1.36 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.02 0.02 (0.04 ) (0.15 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (0.06 ) 0.03 0.17 Net income $ 4.05 $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 2.78 $ 1.38 Dividends per common share $ 1.76 $ 1.60 $ 1.60 $ 1.26 $ 0.96 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 676 676 676 669 657 (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006; 2006 and 2005; and 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Change between 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. 67 Table of Contents December 31, in millions 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 5,051 $ 4,992 $ 4,637 $ 3,880 $ 4,524 Property, plant and equipment, net 24,153 22,775 21,981 21,482 20,630 Noncurrent regulatory assets 5,133 5,808 4,734 5,076 5,564 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,694 3,475 4,705 4,719 Other deferred debits and other assets 8,932 8,050 7,970 7,867 6,800 Total assets $ 45,894 $ 44,319 $ 42,797 $ 43,010 $ 42,237 Current liabilities $ 5,995 $ 5,795 $ 6,563 $ 4,836 $ 5,683 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 11,965 11,911 11,760 12,148 13,489 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,301 3,025 2,518 2,490 2,229 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 14,409 13,494 12,743 13,918 12,246 Minority interest 1 42 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 10,137 10,007 9,125 9,489 8,503 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 45,894 $ 44,319 $ 42,797 $ 43,010 $ 42,237 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charge of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. The results of operations for Generations retail business are not included in periods prior to 2004. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 7,703 $ 8,135 Operating income (loss) 3,392 2,396 1,852 1,039 (115 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 2,025 $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 657 $ (241 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations 4 4 19 (16 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,029 1,407 1,128 641 (241 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (30 ) 32 108 Net income (loss) (a) $2,029 $1,407 $1,098 $673 $(133) (a) Change between 2004 and 2003 was primarily due to the impairment of Boston Generating, LLC long lived assets of $945 million in 2003. 68 Table of Contents December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 2,795 $ 3,433 $ 3,040 $ 2,321 $ 2,438 Property, plant and equipment, net 8,043 7,514 7,464 7,536 7,106 Deferred debits and other assets 8,216 7,962 7,220 6,581 5,105 Total assets $ 19,054 $ 18,909 $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 Current liabilities $ 2,446 $ 2,914 $ 3,400 $ 2,416 $ 3,553 Long term debt 2,513 1,778 1,788 2,583 1,649 Deferred credits and other liabilities 9,725 8,733 8,554 8,356 6,488 Minority interest 1 1 2 44 3 Members equity 4,369 5,483 3,980 3,039 2,956 Total liabilities and members equity $ 19,054 $ 18,909 $ 17,724 $ 16,438 $ 14,649 ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ 5,803 $ 5,814 Operating income (loss) 512 555 (12 ) 1,617 1,567 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (676 ) $ 676 $ 702 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (9 ) 5 Net income (loss) (a) $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 676 $ 707 (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006; 2006 and 2005 and 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,241 $ 1,007 $ 1,024 $ 1,196 $ 1,313 Property, plant and equipment, net 11,127 10,457 9,906 9,463 9,096 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,694 3,475 4,705 4,719 Noncurrent regulatory assets 503 532 280 240 326 Other deferred debits and other assets 3,880 3,084 2,806 2,077 2,837 Total assets $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 $ 18,291 Current liabilities $ 1,712 $ 1,600 $ 2,308 $ 1,764 $ 1,557 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 4,384 4,133 3,541 4,282 5,887 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,447 2,824 2,450 2,444 2,217 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 3,305 2,919 2,796 2,451 2,288 Shareholders equity 6,528 6,298 6,396 6,740 6,342 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 $ 18,291 69 Table of Contents (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,613 $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 4,487 $ 4,388 Operating income 947 866 1,049 1,014 1,056 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 507 $ 441 $ 520 $ 455 $ 473 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (3 ) Net income $ 507 $ 441 $ 517 $ 455 $ 473 Net income on common stock $ 503 $ 437 $ 513 $ 452 $ 468 December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 800 $ 762 $ 795 $ 727 $ 659 Property, plant and equipment, net 4,842 4,651 4,471 4,329 4,256 Noncurrent regulatory assets 3,273 3,896 4,454 4,836 5,238 Other deferred debits and other assets 895 464 366 241 232 Total assets $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 $ 10,385 Current liabilities $ 1,516 $ 978 $ 936 $ 748 $ 676 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 2,866 3,784 4,143 4,628 5,239 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 250 151 68 46 12 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 3,068 3,051 3,235 3,313 3,442 Shareholders equity 2,110 1,809 1,704 1,398 1,016 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 $ 10,385 70 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon General Exelon is a utility services holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following operating segments: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Exelons corporate operations, some of which are performed through its business services subsidiary, BSC, provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $2,736 million in 2007 as compared to $1,592 million in 2006 and diluted earnings per average common share were $4.05 for 2007 as compared to $2.35 for 2006. The increase in net income was primarily due to the following: the impact of a $776 million impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher average margins on Generations wholesale market sales primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006; increased transmission revenues at ComEd; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased delivery volume, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line); gains realized on decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy; favorable income tax benefit associated with Exelons method of capitalizing overhead costs; and the impact of a charge in 2006 associated with the termination of the proposed merger with PSEG. 71 Table of Contents The factors driving the overall increase in net income were partially offset by the following: decreased energy margins (operating revenues net of purchased power expense) at ComEd due to the end of the regulatory transition period; increased mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; the impact of the Illinois Settlement Legislation described below; increased nuclear decommissioning related activity; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; increased amortization expense, primarily related to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; a charge associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP (Tenaska); and the impact of a benefit in 2006 of approximately $288 million to recover certain costs allowed by the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) rate orders. Financing Activities. During 2007, Exelon met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash as well as funds from external sources, including the capital markets, and through bank borrowings. During 2007, Generation, ComEd and PECO issued $746 million, $725 million and $175 million, respectively, of long term debt. In addition, during 2007, ComEd borrowed $370 million under its credit facilities and repaid all outstanding commercial paper. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Registrants debt and credit facilities. On September 4, 2007, Exelon entered into agreements with two investment banks to repurchase a total of $1.25 billion of Exelons common shares under an accelerated share repurchase arrangement. In September 2007, Exelon received 15.1 million shares in accordance with the accelerated share repurchase agreements, which were recorded as treasury stock, at cost, for $1.17 billion. On December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500 million of Exelons outstanding common stock. This new program is in addition to the $1.25 billion share repurchase executed in September 2007. See Note 17 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. On December 19, 2007, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on Exelons common stock. This dividend declaration was made by the Exelon Board of Directors under a value return policy that established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. The Registrants performed an assessment during the fourth quarter of 2007 to determine the impact, if any, of recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets. The Registrants believe that the fair value of their investments, their ability to access liquidity in the market at reasonable rates, their ability to dispose of assets or liabilities as needed to meet financial obligations, and their counterparties creditworthiness will not be significantly affected by the subprime credit crisis. Regulatory and Environmental Developments. The following significant regulatory and environmental developments occurred during 2007. See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Illinois Settlement Legislation and Related Proceedings In July 2007, ComEd and Generation were party to an agreement (Settlement) that concluded discussions of measures to address 72 Table of Contents concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois since the end of the rate freeze transition period on December 31, 2006. The Settlement did not include rate freeze, generation tax or other legislation that would be harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. Legislation implementing the settlement (Settlement Legislation) was signed into law in August 2007 by the Governor of Illinois. Under the Settlement Legislation, Illinois electric utilities, their affiliates, and generators of electricity in Illinois will make voluntary contributions of approximately $1 billion over a period of four years to programs that will provide rate relief to Illinois electricity customers and partial funding for the IPA. Generation and ComEd committed to contributing an aggregate of over $800 million to rate relief programs and funding for the IPA. ComEd continues to execute upon its $64 million rate relief package announced earlier in 2007 whereby contributions to rate relief programs of approximately $41 million were made in 2007. Generation will contribute an aggregate of $747 million, of which $435 million will be available to pay ComEd for rate relief programs for ComEd customers, and $307.5 million will be available for rate relief programs for customers of other Illinois utilities and $4.5 million will be available for partial funding of the IPA. ComEd, Generation, and the Attorney General of the State of Illinois (Illinois Attorney General) also entered into a release and settlement agreement releasing and dismissing with prejudice all litigation, claims and regulatory proceedings and appeals related to the procurement of power, including ICC and FERC proceedings. Additionally, in the event that legislation is enacted prior to August 1, 2011 that would freeze or reduce electric rates or impose a generation tax on any party to the Settlement, the Settlement provides for the contributors to the rate relief funds to terminate their funding commitments and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief. In addition to creating the IPA, the Settlement Legislation established a new competitive process that Illinois utilities will be required to use for the procurement of electricity supply resources and for the implementation of defined levels of cost effective renewable energy resources. The IPA will participate in the design of electricity supply portfolios for ComEd and will administer the new competitive process to procure the electricity supply resources and renewable energy resources identified in the supply portfolio plans, all under the oversight of the ICC. This process will take place for all future delivery periods with the exception of the delivery period starting in June 2008 in which a ComEd developed plan approved by the ICC would be administered. In October 2007, ComEd filed a petition with the ICC seeking approval of an initial procurement plan. The procurement plan and the spot market purchases discussed below will be used to secure power and other ancillary services for retail electric customers for the period June 2008 through May 2009. An ALJ issued a Proposed Order on December 11, 2007, approving virtually every aspect of the proposal. On December 19, 2007, the ICC approved the Proposed Order. In addition to the procurement plan, ComEd will purchase energy on the spot market to meet the needs of its customers. Additionally, to fulfill a requirement of the Settlement, ComEd and Generation entered into a five year financial swap contract whereby ComEd will pay fixed prices and Generation will pay a market price for a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirement. This contract effectively hedges a significant portion of ComEds spot market purchases. The financial swap contract became effective upon the enactment of the Settlement Legislation. The Settlement Legislation deems this arrangement prudent and thereby ensures that ComEd will be entitled to receive full recovery of its costs in its rates. The Settlement Legislation further requires that electric utilities use cost effective energy efficiency and demand response resources to meet incremental annual goals. In November 2007, ComEd filed its initial Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Plan with the ICC and expects an ICC order to be issued on the filing during the first quarter of 2008. This plan begins on June 1, 2008 and is designed to meet the Settlement Legislations energy efficiency 73 Table of Contents and demand response goals for an initial three year period, including reductions in delivered energy and in ComEds supply customers peak demand. If targets are met, ComEd customers would reduce their electricity consumption by a cumulative amount of approximately 1.2 million MWh at the end of the three years. Savings on customers bills is expected to pay for the cost of implementing the programs and produce additional net savings of more than $155 million over the lifetime of the programs. Once implemented, the programs would place ComEd among the top three utilities in the nation in terms of annual electricity savings achieved through energy efficiency. The Settlement Legislation also declared that the 400 kW and above customer classes of ComEd are competitive. On October 11, 2007, the ICC granted a request made by ComEd by declaring that customer classes with demands of 100 kW or greater but less than 400 kW are competitive, effective on November 11, 2007. Consequently, after the expiration of a three year transitional period, ComEd will have a POLR obligation only for those customers with demand of less than 100 kW who have not chosen a competitive electric generation supplier. Other provisions in the Settlement Legislation extend the ability of utilities to engage in divestiture and other restructuring transactions, after only having to make an informational filing at the ICC, and ensure that until at least June 30, 2022, the state will not prohibit an electric utility from maintaining its membership in a FERC approved regional transmission organization chosen by the utility. Illinois Procurement Proceedings On March 28, 2007 and March 30, 2007, class action suits were filed in Illinois state court against ComEd and Generation as well as the other suppliers in the Illinois procurement auction that occurred in September 2006. The suits claimed that the suppliers manipulated the auction and that the resulting wholesale prices were unlawfully high. On December 21, 2007, a United States District Court granted the defendants motions to dismiss both cases and the time to appeal that order has expired. Delivery Service Rate Case On October 17, 2007, ComEd filed a request with the ICC seeking approval to increase its delivery service rates to reflect its continued investment in delivery service assets since rates were last determined. If approved by the ICC, the total proposed increase of approximately $360 million in the net annual revenue requirement, which was based on a 2006 test year, would increase an average residential customer bill by approximately 7.7%. ICC proceedings relating to the proposed delivery service rates will take place over a period of up to eleven months. Transmission Rate Case On March 1, 2007, ComEd filed a request with FERC, seeking approval to increase the rate ComEd receives for transmission services. ComEd also requested incentive rate treatment for certain transmission projects. On June 5, 2007, FERC issued an order that conditionally approved ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate effective as of May 1, 2007, but subject to refund, hearing procedures and conditions. The order denied ComEds request for incentive rate treatment on investment in certain transmission projects and the inclusion of construction work in progress in rate base. On October 5, 2007, ComEd made a filing with FERC seeking approval of a settlement agreement reached on the case that had been announced by the settlement judge to FERC in September 2007. The settlement agreement is a comprehensive resolution of all issues in the proceeding, other than ComEds pending request for rehearing on incentive returns on new investment. The settlement agreement establishes the treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis and results in a first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement increase of approximately $93 million, or a $24 million reduction from the revenue requirement conditionally approved by FERC on June 5, 2007. FERC approved the settlement on January 16, 2008. Management believes that appropriate reserves 74 Table of Contents have been established for transmission revenues that will be refunded in accordance with the final settlement agreement. On January 18, 2008, FERC issued an order on rehearing that allowed a 1.5% adder to return on equity for ComEds largest transmission project and authorized the inclusion of 100% of construction work in progress in rate base for that project but rejected incentive treatment for any other project ComEd has pending. City of Chicago Settlement On December 21, 2007, ComEd entered into a settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (City) regarding a wide range of issues including components of its franchise agreement with the City and other matters. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, ComEd will make payments totaling $55 million to the City through 2012 so long as the City meets specified conditions contained in the settlement agreement. The first payment of $23 million was made in December 2007. The City has agreed not to challenge ComEds position in certain regulatory proceedings during the term of the Settlement Agreement, including, among others, ComEds delivery service rate case, the recent transmission rate case, and ComEds proposed revenue requirements in future rate cases when increases in the revenue requirement do not exceed specified increases in the Consumer Price Index. The City further agreed to allow ComEd to cancel various projects previously required under the franchise agreement with the City and to defer completion of other required projects. The settlement agreement also settles other disputes between ComEd and the City, including dismissing the Citys appeal of ComEds 2005 delivery rate case. ComEd and the City also agreed to establish a panel of ComEd and City representatives to evaluate opportunities to improve service reliability in the City. PECO AEPS Filing On March 19, 2007, PECO filed a request with PAPUC for approval to acquire and bank up to 450,000 non solar Tier I Alternative Energy Credits (equivalent to up to 240 MWs of electricity generated by wind) annually for a five year term in order to prepare for 2011, the first year of PECOs required compliance under the AEPS Act following the completion of its transition period. On July 16, 2007, the Pennsylvania legislature modified the previously proposed AEPS Act in HB 1203. The modification did not affect PECOs request for acquiring and banking Alternative Energy Credits or the proposed deferral of related costs. The PAPUC approved PECOs filing on December 20, 2007. Using an independent Request for Proposal (RFP) monitor, PECO will conduct an RFP process for alternative energy producers to submit bids to sell credits beginning in March 2008. Outlook for 2008 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: The Settlement Legislation is expected to provide ComEd with greater stability and certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to its customers with less risk that rate freeze or other harmful legislation will be pursued in the near term. The Settlement Legislation established a new competitive procurement model to be developed by the IPA, by which ComEd will procure its energy supply. ComEd has stabilized a portion of its costs of procurement pursuant to the five year financial swap contract with Generation. ComEd will be allowed to fully recover the costs of procuring energy, including the impacts of the financial swap contract, in its rates. In the event that legislation is enacted in the Illinois General Assembly prior to August 1, 2011 that freezes or reduces electric rates or imposes a generation tax, the Settlement Legislation permits ComEd and Generation, as contributors to certain rate relief programs, to terminate their funding commitments to such programs and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief. PECO was subject to electric rate caps on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 and is subject to caps on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. PECOs transmission and distribution rates will continue in effect until PECO files a rate case 75 Table of Contents or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. There are no current proceedings to do so. PECO is or will be involved in proceedings involving annual changes in its electric and gas universal service fund cost charges, its electric CTC/intangible transition charge reconciliation mechanism, its purchased gas cost rate, and its every five year nuclear decommissioning cost adjustment clause mechanism, all of which relate to PECOs recovery of the applicable costs. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2008 and 2009. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. Generation procures nuclear fuel assemblies through long term contracts for uranium concentrates and through long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Generation procures coal primarily through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with these commodity price exposures. The PPA between Generation and PECO expires at the end of 2010. Current market prices for electricity have increased significantly over the past few years due to the rise in natural gas and other fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates are below current wholesale energy market prices and Generations margins on sales in excess of PECOs requirements have improved historically. Generations ability to achieve those margins following the expiration of the PPA will partially depend on future wholesale market prices. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs to either further limit the GHG emissions from its operations or in procuring emission allowance credits. However, Exelon may benefit from stricter emission standards due to its significant nuclear capacity, which is not anticipated to be adversely affected by the proposed emission standards. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in the case of Massachusetts v. U. S. EPA holding that carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions are pollutants subject to regulation under the new motor vehicle provisions of the Clean Air Act. The case was remanded to the EPA for further rulemaking to determine whether GHG emissions may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, or in the alternative provide a reasonable explanation why GHG emissions should not be regulated. Possible outcomes from this decision include regulation of GHG emissions from manufacturing plants, including electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, under a new EPA rule, and Federal or state legislation. Exelon anticipates that it will be subject to the ongoing pressures of rising operating expenses due to increases in costs, such as medical benefits and rising payroll costs due to inflation. 76 Table of Contents Also, Exelon will continue to incur significant capital costs associated with its commitment to produce and deliver energy reliably to its customers. Increasing capital costs may include the price of uranium, which fuels the nuclear facilities, and continued capital investment in Exelons aging distribution infrastructure and generating facilities. Exelon is determined to operate its businesses responsibly and to appropriately manage its operating and capital costs while serving its customers and producing value for its shareholders. Generation pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize shareholder value, taking earnings, cash flow and financial risk into account. On September 29, 2006, Generation notified the NRC that Generation will begin the application process for a combined COL that would allow for the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas. The filing of the letter with the NRC launched a process that preserves for Exelon and Generation the option to develop a new nuclear plant in Texas without immediately committing to the full project. In order to continue preserving and assessing this option, Exelon and Generation have approved expenditures on the project of up to $100 million, which includes fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments and other costs for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. The development phase of the project is expected to extend into 2009, and funding beyond the $100 million commitment would be subject to extensive analysis. Generation has not made a decision to build a new nuclear plant at this time. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision to build is made are a workable solution to spent nuclear fuel disposal, broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant and assurances that a new plant using the new technology can be financially successful, which would entail economic analysis that would incorporate assessing construction and financing costs, production and other potential tax credits, and other key economic factors. Generation expects to submit the COL application to the NRC in 2008. On December 11, 2007, Generation announced that it will seek to accelerate the decommissioning of its Zion Station in Illinois more than a decade earlier than originally planned. Generation has contracted with EnergySolutions, Inc. to dismantle the nuclear plant, which closed in 1998. Completion of the arrangement is subject to the satisfaction of a number of closing conditions, including the receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. Additionally, the NRC must approve the arrangement, and this decision is not expected before the second half of 2008. Upon approval, the Zion Stations licenses and decommissioning funds would be transferred to EnergySolutions, Inc. During 2006, FERC issued its order approving PJMs settlement proposal related to its RPM to provide for a forward capacity auction using a demand curve and locational deliverability zones for capacity phased in over a several year period. FERCs adoption of the settlement proposal has had a favorable impact for owners of generation facilities, particularly for facilities located in constrained zones. PJMs RPM auctions took place in April 2007, July 2007, October 2007 and January 2008 and established prices for the period from June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2011. Subsequent auctions will take place 36 months ahead of the scheduled delivery year. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its opinion in a challenge to the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. By its action, the court invalidated compliance measures that the utility industry supported because they were cost effective and provided existing plants with needed flexibility in selecting the compliance option appropriate to its location and operations. The courts opinion has created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final compliance requirements. Several industry parties to the litigation sought review by the entire U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which was denied on July 5, 2007. On November 2, 2007, the industry parties filed a petition seeking review by the U.S. Supreme Court. The respondent environmental and state parties have until March 1, 2008 to respond to the petition. On July 9, 2007, the EPA formally suspended the Phase II rule due to the uncertainty about the specific 77 Table of Contents compliance requirements created by the Courts remand of significant provisions of the rule. Until the EPA finalizes the rule on remand (which could take several years), the state permitting agencies will continue the current practice of applying their best professional judgment to address impingement and entrainment requirements at plant cooling water intake structures. Due to this uncertainty, Generation cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the Phase II rule requirements will have on the operation of its generating facilities and its future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If the final rule, or interim state requirements under best professional judgment, has performance standards that require the reduction of cooling water intake flow at the plants consistent with closed loop cooling systems, then the impact on the operation of the facilities and Exelons and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be material. On May 10, 2007, after completion of a two year rule making process, the PAPUC adopted final default service regulations, an accompanying policy statement, and a price mitigation policy statement. The regulations allow for competitive procurement by distribution companies through auctions or Requests for Proposals, with full cost recovery and no retrospective prudence review. According to the policy statement, the PAPUC expects companies to procure power, on a customer class basis, using contracts of varying expiration dates, and prefers contracts with a duration of one year or less, except for contracts for compliance with the AEPS Act. The PAPUC also expects companies to reconcile costs and adjust rates at least quarterly for most customers, but hourly or monthly for larger energy users. The PAPUC believes this combination will stimulate competition, send market price signals and avoid price spikes following long periods of fixed, capped rates. The PAPUC also ordered the elimination of (1) declining block rates, while allowing rates to be phased out if the resulting rate increase is greater than 25%; and (2) demand charges for large customers, while entertaining requests to retain those charges on a case by case basis. Electric distribution companies, such as PECO, will be required to make their implementation filings a minimum of 12 months prior to the end of the generation rate cap period, which for PECO, expires December 31, 2010. The final default service regulations became effective on September 15, 2007. In Pennsylvania and other states where rate cap transition periods have ended or are approaching expiration, there is growing pressure from state regulators and elected officials to mitigate the potential impact of electricity price increases on retail customers. Such transition periods have ended for six Pennsylvania electric distribution companies and, in some instances, post transition electricity price increases occurred. In response to concerns about post transition rate increases in Pennsylvania, several measures have been either proposed or contemplated by various stakeholders. Certain legislators, for example, have suggested an extension of rate caps. Other measures previously proposed by the Pennsylvania Governor as part of his Energy Independence Strategy included, among other things: a phase in of increased generation rates after expiration of rate caps; installation of smart metering technology; permission for electric distribution companies to enter into long term contracts with large industrial customers; creation of a fee on electric consumption that would help fund an $850 million Energy Independence Fund designed to spur the development of a biofuels industry in the state as well as to promote the advancement of energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives; a requirement for electric distribution companies, such as PECO, to procure electricity for their default service customers after the end of their electric restructuring period (post 2010 for PECO), through a least cost portfolio approach, with preferences for conservation and renewable power and permit distribution companies to enter into long term procurement contracts to enable the construction of new generation. As of February 7, 2008, no portion of the Governors environmental agenda has been enacted into law. PECO cannot predict what measures, if any, will be introduced in the state legislature or become law in Pennsylvania, nor the disposition of measures in the Pennsylvania Governors Energy Independence Strategy. However, any legislation that requires PECO to sell electricity, 78 Table of Contents beginning in 2011, at prices that are below PECOs cost to procure and deliver electricity to customers or other legislation that would freeze rates or extend the rate cap beyond 2010 could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. On October 15, 2007, Generation entered into an agreement (Termination Agreement) with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Dominion Resources Inc., to terminate the Power Purchase Agreement dated as of April 17, 1996 (as amended, the PPA) between State Line and Generation relating to the State Line generating facility in Hammond, Indiana. Under the PPA, Generation controlled 515 MW of electric energy and capacity from the State Line facility. FERC approved the Termination Agreement on October 18, 2007. Further, the conditions to the effectiveness of the Termination Agreement were subsequently satisfied and Generation received a net cash payment from State Line of approximately $228 million, after adjustments, in consideration for the termination of the PPA and for the purchase of coal inventories on hand (and in transit) and other assets. As a result of the Termination Agreement, a negative net income impact to Generation of approximately $30 million to $35 million (after tax) per year is expected beginning in 2008 through the end of the original contract term in 2012. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies on a unit by unit basis to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at a minimum of every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation 79 Table of Contents factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, low level radioactive waste disposal and other costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternatives and timing scenarios on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% (high cost scenario) or minus 15% (low cost scenario) over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a low level radioactive waste landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a 20 year delay) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposal. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2007 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 313 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 113 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 147 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 226 Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a periodic basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or estimated amount of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill which relates to the acquisition of ComEd under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for 80 Table of Contents impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of the reporting unit. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In the assessment, Exelon and ComEd estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with scenarios reflecting managements plans and a resulting range of operating results and cash flows. The model includes an estimate of ComEds terminal value based on these expected cash flows and on an earnings multiple approach, which reflects the estimated value of comparable utility companies. Other significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit include ComEds capital structure, interest rates, utility sector market performance, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors. Changes in these variables or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of approximately 13% in expected discounted cash flows in ComEds 2007 annual assessment would have resulted in ComEd and Exelon failing step 1 of the impairment test. ComEd and Exelon would be required to perform step 2 of the impairment test to determine the amount of an impairment, if any. An impairment would require Exelon and ComEd to reduce both goodwill and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Investments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO had investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2007. Beginning in 2006, and in connection with the issuance of FASB Staff Position FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. Generation considers all nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments in an unrealized loss position to be other than temporarily impaired. Since the NRC sets limitations on Exelons and Generations ability to direct the management of the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments, Exelon and Generation do not have the ability to hold investments with unrealized losses through a recovery period and, accordingly, unrealized holding losses are recognized immediately, which are included in other, net in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their 81 Table of Contents estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of property, plant and equipment recorded and the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. The estimated service lives of the nuclear fuel generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel and hydroelectric generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. ComEd reviews its estimated service lives when circumstances, such as technological changes, warrant such a review. ComEds last depreciation study was performed in 2002. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. The impact of the new rates was not material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for essentially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees, except for those employees of Generations wholly owned subsidiary, AmerGen, who participate in the separate AmerGen sponsored defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement welfare benefit plan. See Note 15 Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under these plans involve various factors, including numerous assumptions and accounting elections. When determining the various assumptions that are required, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The benefit costs are affected by, among other things, the actual rate of return on plan assets, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment crediting rate, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs and the level of benefits provided to employees and retirees. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 8.75% for 2007 and 9.00% for 2006 and 2005. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement 82 Table of Contents benefit costs was 7.85%, 8.15% and 8.30% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The EROA is based on current and forecasted asset allocations as described in Note 15 Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A change in the strategy of the asset allocations could significantly impact the EROA and related costs. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the market related value (MRV) of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments that are to be made during the year. SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (SFAS No. 106) allow the MRV of plan assets to be either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. Exelon uses a calculated value when determining the MRV of the pension plan assets that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. This calculated value has the effect of stabilizing variability in assets to which Exelon applies that expected return. Exelon uses fair value when determining the MRV of the other postretirement benefit plan assets and the AmerGen pension plan assets. The discount rate for determining the pension benefit obligations was 6.20%, 5.90% and 5.60% at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The discount rate for determining the other postretirement benefit obligations was 6.20%, 5.85% and 5.60% at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of more than 400 Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end will be used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use a discount rate and EROA of 6.20% and 8.75%, respectively, for estimating its 2008 pension costs. Additionally, Exelon will use a discount rate and expected return on plan assets of 6.20% and 7.80%, respectively, for estimating its 2008 other postretirement benefit costs. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onPension Liability atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on2007Pension Cost Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on 2007PostretirementBenefit Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 648 $ 57 $ 207 $ 26 Decrease rate of EROA by 0.5% 47 7 83 Table of Contents Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens postretirement benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2007 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2007 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on2007Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase assumed health care cost trend by 1% $ 422 $ 48 Decrease assumed health care cost trend by 1% (349 ) (39 ) Extending the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2007 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2007 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on2007Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years $ 139 $ 18 The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement as allowed by SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs, transition obligations, and certain of its actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs over participants average remaining service period related to eligibility age, and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of defined pension plan participants was 13.0 years, 13.5 years and 13.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 6.9 years, 7.3 years and 7.5 years for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.7 years, 10.3 years and 10.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred or gains that are required to be returned to customers. Use of SFAS No. 71 is 84 Table of Contents applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their businesses, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2007, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $2.9 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that ComEd could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Similarly, at December 31, 2007, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $3.0 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that PECO could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a (before taxes) charge against other comprehensive income of up to $1.2 billion and $74 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The resolution of the above items and the impact on ComEds capital structure could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 4, 8 and 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that will ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of the appropriate regulatory process. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies, known circumstances specific to a particular matter, discussions held with the applicable regulatory body, and other factors. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual events, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has a five year financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013. PECO has entered into derivative gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. ComEd and PECO do not enter into 85 Table of Contents derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133) and related interpretations. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under SFAS No. 133 requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the liquidity of its market as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133 continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets and changes in interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133 could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium do not meet the definition of a derivative under SFAS No. 133 since they do not provide for net settlement and the uranium markets are not sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the cost or value of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period. For ComEds financial swap contract with Generation, ComEd records changes in the fair value of the swap as well as an offsetting regulatory asset or liability. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases or normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Normal purchases and sales are contracts where physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time, and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, the majority of these transactions have been designated as normal purchases or normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but on an accrual basis of accounting. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings. 86 Table of Contents Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a result of the Settlement reached in 2007, ComEd and Generation entered into a financial swap contract that has been designated as a cash flow hedge by Generation but has not been designated for hedge accounting by ComEd. The effect of the contract will be to cause Generation to pay market prices and ComEd to pay fixed prices for a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirement into 2013. In Exelons consolidated financial statements, all financial statement effects of the swap recorded by Generation and ComEd are eliminated. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. For options contracts, Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Normal Operations and Hedging Activities for further information regarding sensitivity analysis related to market price exposure. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants primarily use available market pricing curves. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Beginning January 1, 2007, the Registrants began accounting for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement in accordance with FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Prior to January 1, 2007, the Registrants estimated their uncertain income tax obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS No. 109), SFAS No. 5, and Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements a replacement of FASB Concepts Statement No. 3 (incorporating 87 Table of Contents an amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2) (CON 6). The Registrants recognize accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense or interest income in other income and deductions on their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Registrants also have non income tax obligations related to real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters that are outside the scope of FIN 48 and accounted for under SFAS No. 5 and CON 6. Accounting for tax positions requires judgments, including estimating reserves for potential uncertainties. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with FIN 48, SFAS No. 5, SFAS No. 109 and CON 6 as applicable, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on the liabilities and expenses in their financial statements. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon and Generation have a reserve for asbestos related bodily injury claims for open claims presented to Generation as of December 31, 2007 and for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030 based on actuarial assumptions and analysis. Exelons 88 Table of Contents and Generations management each determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims beyond 2030 based on the historical claims data available and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating the future losses, management made various assumptions, including but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that relate to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelon obtains periodic updates of the estimate of future losses. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon historical experience and actuarial studies. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. These estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Generations revenue from service agreements is dependent upon when the services are rendered. Service agreements representing a cost recovery arrangement are presented gross within revenues for the amounts due from the party receiving the service, and the costs associated with providing the service are presented within operating and maintenance expenses. The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of probable losses on the accounts receivable balances. The allowance is based on known troubled accounts, historical experience and other currently available evidence. For ComEd and PECO, customer accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. Customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory guidelines. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories and are prohibited from terminating electric service to certain residential customers due to nonpayment during certain months of the year. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in 89 Table of Contents prices as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would need to make adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts for the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. ComEds and PECOs allowance for uncollectible accounts expense increased by $25 million and $13 million, respectively, in 2007 as compared to 2006. These increases resulted from a change in collectibility assumptions in response to changes in the customer payment patterns, changes in customer prices, changes in termination practices and certain changes in business and economic conditions. To the extent that actual collectibility differs from managements estimates by 5%, the after tax impact would be higher or lower by an estimated $4 million, $2 million, $2 million and less than $1 million for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. See ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the rollforwards of allowance for uncollectible accounts. Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Results of Operations Exelon 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 18,916 $ 15,655 $ 3,261 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 7,642 5,232 (2,410 ) Operating and maintenance 4,289 3,868 (421 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 1,520 1,487 (33 ) Taxes other than income 797 771 (26 ) Total operating expenses 14,248 12,134 (2,114 ) Operating income 4,668 3,521 1,147 Other income and deductions Interest expense (647 ) (616 ) (31 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (203 ) (264 ) 61 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (106 ) (111 ) 5 Other, net 460 266 194 Total other income and deductions (496 ) (725 ) 229 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 4,172 2,796 1,376 Income taxes 1,446 1,206 (240 ) Income from continuing operations 2,726 1,590 1,136 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 10 2 8 Net income $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.05 $ 2.35 $ 1.70 90 Table of Contents Net Income. Exelons net income for 2007 increased due to the impact of a $776 million impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher average margins on Generations wholesale market sales primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006; increased nuclear output at Generation reflecting fewer outage days; increased transmission revenues at ComEd; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased delivery volume, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; decreased nuclear refueling outage costs; incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; gains realized on decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy; favorable income tax benefit associated with Exelons method of capitalizing overhead costs; increased earnings associated with synthetic fuel producing facilities; the reduction in the reserve related to the successful PURTA tax appeal at PECO; and a charge in 2006 associated with the termination of the proposed merger with PSEG. These increases were partially offset by decreased energy margins at ComEd due to the end of the regulatory transition period; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; the impact of the Settlement; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the AmerGen nuclear plants; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; increased amortization expense related to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO; costs associated with the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas; benefits in 2006 of approximately $288 million to recover certain costs by the ICC rate orders; and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation resulting from higher volumes of generation sold to the market at higher prices as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; the impact of rate changes and mix at ComEd due to the end of the rate freeze and the implementation of market based rates for electricity; increased transmission revenues at ComEd resulting from the 2007 transmission rate case; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; higher delivery volumes, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; and authorized electric generation rate increases under the 1998 restructuring agreement at PECO. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the Settlement; more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; costs associated with ComEds settlement agreement with the City of Chicago; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased due to higher market energy prices; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to a contract with Tenaska; higher prices for electricity purchased by ComEd; and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply for 2007 and 2006. The increases in purchase power and fuel expense were partially offset by a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under its supplier forward contracts from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. 91 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the AmerGen nuclear plants; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; new nuclear site development costs for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas; increased tax consulting fees; and benefits of $201 million recorded at ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate orders. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006; incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; and a charge recorded in 2006 of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the now terminated proposed merger with PSEG. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2006, ComEd recorded a $776 million impairment charge associated with its goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service across Exelon. These increases were partially offset by lower amortization related to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to an increase in utility taxes resulting from higher utility revenues at PECO and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in the reserve related to the successful PURTA tax appeal at PECO. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects interest income related to the favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; a gain related to the sale of investments by Generation; income and gains associated with nuclear decommissioning trust funds, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy; benefits of $87 million recorded by ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate order; and earnings associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 34.7% for 2007 compared to 43.1% for 2006. The 2007 rate decreased, as compared with 2006, primarily due to ComEds non deductible goodwill impairment charge in 2006 which increased the rate by 9.7% and a decrease of state tax expense in 2007 of 1.5% due to a tax restructuring to allow utilization of separate company losses for state income tax purposes, partially offset by a reduction in synthetic fuel credits of 1.7% in 2007 caused by an increase in the phase out due to higher oil prices, and other changes amounting to 1.1%. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates and discussion on the investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe Energies, Inc (Sithe). In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Exelon Enterprises Company, LLC (Enterprises). Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. 92 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2007 and 2006 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 2,025 $ 1,403 $ 622 ComEd 165 (112 ) 277 PECO 507 441 66 Other (a) 29 (142 ) 171 Total $ 2,726 $ 1,590 $ 1,136 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 2,029 $ 1,407 $ 622 ComEd 165 (112 ) 277 PECO 507 441 66 Other (a) 35 (144 ) 179 Total $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 93 Table of Contents Results of Operations Generation 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 1,606 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 4,451 3,978 (473 ) Operating and maintenance 2,454 2,305 (149 ) Depreciation and amortization 267 279 12 Taxes other than income 185 185 Total operating expenses 7,357 6,747 (610 ) Operating income 3,392 2,396 996 Other income and deductions Interest expense (161 ) (159 ) (2 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates 1 (9 ) 10 Other, net 155 41 114 Total other income and deductions (5 ) (127 ) 122 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,387 2,269 1,118 Income taxes 1,362 866 (496 ) Income from continuing operations 2,025 1,403 622 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 4 4 Income from discontinued operations 4 4 Net income $ 2,029 $ 1,407 $ 622 Net Income. Generations net income for 2007 compared to 2006 increased primarily due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, more than offsetting inflationary and other cost pressures, a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in the nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the AmerGen nuclear plants and costs associated with the new nuclear plant COL application. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased due to higher average margins primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006, the contractual increase in the prices associated with Generations PPA with PECO, the termination of the State Line PPA and a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007, partially offset by amounts incurred in conjunction with the Settlement, net mark to market losses on derivative activities and the execution of the Georgia Power PPA. In addition to these impacts, Generations net income for 2007 included (all after tax) gains of $38 million related to changes in Generations investment strategy with the decommissioning trust fund investments, a gain on the sale of investments of $11 million and earnings of $4 million associated with the settlement of a tax matter related to Generations previous investment in Sithe. Operating Revenues. For 2007 and 2006, Generations revenues were as follows: Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,537 $ 4,674 $ (1,137 ) (24.3 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 6,834 3,640 3,194 87.7 % Total energy sales revenue 10,371 8,314 2,057 24.7 % Retail gas sales 449 540 (91 ) (16.9 )% Trading portfolio 43 14 29 207.1 % Other revenue (a) (114 ) 275 (389 ) (141.4 )% Total revenue $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 1,606 17.6 % (a) Includes amounts incurred for the Settlement, income associated with the termination of the State Line PPA, revenues relating to fossil fuel sales and operating service agreements, and decommissioning revenue from PECO during 2007. Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales and operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO during 2006. 94 Table of Contents Sales (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 64,406 119,354 (54,948 ) (46.0 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 125,244 71,326 53,918 75.6 % Total sales 189,650 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% Trading volumes of 20,323 GWhs and 31,692 GWhs for 2007 and 2006, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. The changes in Generations electric sales to affiliates for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Electric sales to affiliates Price Volume Increase(decrease) ComEd $ 650 $ (2,035 ) $ (1,385 ) PECO 169 79 248 Total $ 819 $ (1,956 ) $ (1,137 ) In the ComEd territories, decreased volumes were the result of the expiration of Generations PPA with ComEd effective December 31, 2006. The decrease was partially offset by higher prices received by Generation following the expiration of the PPA, under which Generation was receiving below market rates. With the expiration of the PPA, Generation is now receiving higher prices from ComEd under the forward supply contracts. In the PECO territories, higher prices were the result of a scheduled electric generation rate increase that took effect January 1, 2007. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Volume $ 2,782 Price 412 Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 3,194 The increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily the result of higher volumes of generation sold to the market as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales decreased $91 million for 2007 as compared to 2006, of which $53 million of the decrease was due to lower volumes as a result of lower demand and $38 million was due to lower realized prices. Other revenues. The decrease in other revenues in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to a $408 million decrease for amounts recorded related to the Settlement, a decrease of $86 million due to the cessation of a tolling agreement and a $66 million decrease related to the termination of decommissioning collections from ComEd in accordance with the terms and conditions of the ICC order which only permitted such collections through December 31, 2006, partially offset by income of $223 million related to the termination of the State Line PPA. Additionally, a $40 million decrease in other revenues was attributable to the sale of Termoel&eacute;ctrica del Golfo (TEG) and Termoel&eacute;ctrica Pe&ntilde;oles (TEP) on February 9, 2007 and the resulting absence of revenue thereafter. 95 Table of Contents Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 140,359 139,610 749 0.5 % Purchases non trading portfolio 38,021 38,297 (276 ) (0.7 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 11,270 12,773 (1,503 ) (11.8 )% Total supply 189,650 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The following table presents changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2007 compared to 2006. Generation considers the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense as a useful measure to analyze the profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. (in millions) Price Volume Increase(Decrease) Purchased power costs (a) $ 236 $ (47 ) $ 189 Generation costs (b) 2 (5 ) (3 ) Fuel resale costs (56 ) (38 ) (94 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. 275 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 367 (a) Excludes the net impact of $119 million loss recorded in 2007 associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska. (b) Excludes the net impact of a $13 million one time settlement with the Department of Energy recorded in 2006 for uranium enrichment services. n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power cost includes all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to lower volumes needed to supply ComEd as a result of the expiration of the PPA at December 31, 2006. Generation incurred overall higher prices for purchased power, partially offset by a decrease of $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in 2007. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel cost for internally generated energy. Generation costs were relatively flat in 2007, as compared to 2006. The decrease in volume of $5 million was primarily due to lower fossil and hydroelectric generation, partially offset by higher nuclear generation. Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs for 2007 as compared to 2006 consisted of overall lower prices resulting in a decrease of $56 million. Additionally, a decrease of $38 million was the result of lower volumes caused by lower demand. Mark to market. Mark to market losses on power derivative activities were $253 million in 2007 compared to gains of $180 million in 2006. Mark to market gains on fuel derivative activities were $81 million in 2007 compared to losses of $77 million in 2006. 96 Table of Contents The following table presents average electric revenues, supply costs and margins per MWh of electricity sold during 2007, as compared to 2006. As denoted in the table, average electric margins are defined as average electric revenues less average electric supply costs. Generation considers average electric margins useful measures to analyze the change in profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these margins may not be a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. ($/MWh) 2007 2006 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 54.90 $ 39.16 40.2 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 54.59 51.03 7.0 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 54.70 43.60 25.5 % Average electric supply cost (a)(b) excluding the trading portfolio $ 20.44 $ 18.02 13.4 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 34.26 $ 25.58 33.9 % (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. (b) Excludes the net impact of the $119 million loss related to the execution of the Georgia Power PPA and costs related to the termination of the State Line PPA during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007. The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2007 as compared to 2006. As demonstrated in the table, nuclear fleet capacity factor is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time and its output if the plant had operated at full capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one (1) MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet production between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures may not be a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2007 2006 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 94.5 % 93.9 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 14.46 $ 13.85 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The nuclear fleet capacity factor increased primarily due to fewer outage days during 2007 compared to 2006. For 2007 and 2006, refueling outage days totaled 195 and 237, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 59 and 71, respectively. The higher number of net MWhs generated and lower costs due to fewer planned refueling outage days were offset by higher costs for labor, nuclear fuel, NRC reactor fees, security costs and material condition work, resulting in an increase in the production cost per MWh for 2007 as compared to 2006. 97 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Payroll, pension and benefit costs $ 85 New nuclear site development costs 49 Decommissioning related activities 40 TEG and TEP related expenses (39 ) Nuclear refueling outage costs including the co owned Salem plant (32 ) Contractor expenses 24 Corporate allocations 14 Other 8 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 149 The $85 million increase in payroll, pension and benefit costs reflected the impact of inflation as well as an increase in various direct fringe costs. The $49 million increase in new nuclear site development costs was due to costs incurred for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas, including fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. The $40 million increase in nuclear decommissioning related activities was primarily associated with the recognition of a credit of $29 million, compared to a credit of $149 million recognized in 2006, representing reductions in the asset retirement obligation in excess of the asset retirement cost balance for the AmerGen units. Additionally, decommissioning related activities decreased by $66 million resulting from the termination of revenue collections on December 31, 2006 from ComEd, which likewise no longer required an offset through operating and maintenance expense, and decreased by $14 million due to the offset of certain income taxes associated with decommission related activity. The $39 million decrease in expenses related to TEG and TEP was due to the sale of the investment in 2007. The $32 million decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs was associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006. The $24 million increase in contractor expense was primarily related to staff augmentation and maintenance work at the nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric plants. The $14 million increase in corporate support service costs reflected an increase in a variety of BSC services allocated to Generation, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology and supply management services. Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the reassessment of the useful lives, for accounting purposes, of several fossil facilities and the write off of certain asset retirement costs in 2006. Interest Expense. The increase in net interest expense for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily attributable to an increase in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of the FIN 48 tax interest calculation and an increase in interest expense related to the bond issuance during the third quarter of 2007, partially offset by an interest payment accrued in 2006 for the settlement of a tax matter, a decline in the amount of commercial paper that was outstanding and an increase in average cash on hand balances during 2007 compared to 2006. 98 Table of Contents Other, Net. The increase in other, net in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects a gain on sale of investments recognized in 2007 and income and gains associated with nuclear decommissioning trust funds, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective January 1, 2008, the utilization of the fair value option under SFAS No. 159 for nuclear decommissioning trust funds will allow Generation to recognize unrealized gains, which will be included in other, net in Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact of adoption of SFAS No. 159. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective tax rate was 40.2% for 2007 compared to 38.2% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was attributable to an increase in deferred tax expense associated with the generation portion of ComEds research and development settlement as well as ComEds and PECOs application of the indirect cost capitalization method settlement guidelines recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, realized gains recognized in the fourth quarter by the qualified nuclear decommissioning trusts also contributed to the increase in the effective tax rate. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe have been presented as discontinued operations within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Generations Consolidated Statement of Income for 2007 reflects a $4 million (after tax) gain on the disposal of discontinued operations related primarily to Sithe, resulting from a settlement agreement between a subsidiary of Sithe, the Pennsylvania Attorney Generals Office and the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue regarding a previously disputed tax position asserted for the 2000 tax year. Generations Consolidated Statement of Income and Comprehensive Income for 2006 reflects a $4 million (after tax) gain on disposal of discontinued operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. Results of Operations ComEd 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 3 Purchased power expense 3,747 3,292 (455 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense 2,357 2,809 (452 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,091 745 (346 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 440 430 (10 ) Taxes other than income 314 303 (11 ) Total other operating expenses 1,845 2,254 409 Operating income 512 555 (43 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (318 ) (308 ) (10 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (7 ) (10 ) 3 Other, net 58 96 (38 ) Total other income and deductions (267 ) (222 ) (45 ) Income before income taxes 245 333 (88 ) Income taxes 80 445 365 Net income (loss) $ 165 $ (112 ) $ 277 99 Table of Contents Net Income. As more fully described below, ComEds net income (loss) for 2007 compared to 2006 reflected the impact of a goodwill impairment charge in 2006 partially offset by higher purchased power expense, higher operating and maintenance expense, and the impacts of the 2006 benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which it is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 or additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to help reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. In 2007, ComEd incurred increased costs associated with transitioning from the rate freeze period, including implementing the rate relief programs. Operating Revenues and Purchased Power Expense. ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. ComEd has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense RevenueNet ofPurchasedPowerExpense Rate changes and mix $ 748 $ 1,346 $ (598 ) Rate Relief Program (33 ) (33 ) Transmission 115 (17 ) 132 Weather 141 83 58 Delivery volume 20 20 Customer choice (917 ) (917 ) Other (71 ) (40 ) (31 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 3 $ 455 $ (452 ) Rate changes and mix Revenue. The increase in revenue related to rate changes and mix primarily reflects the end of the rate freeze and the implementation of market based rates for electricity and the impact of the distribution rate increase. In 2006, most customers were charged a bundled rate that included distribution, transmission and the cost of electricity. Additionally, under Illinois law, no CTCs are permitted to be collected after 2006. As of January 2007, ComEd began billing customers on an 100 Table of Contents unbundled basis, which includes separate charges for distribution, transmission and electricity. Given the relatively small increase of $83 million approved by the ICC in the annual distribution revenue requirements, the majority of the change in year over year pricing was driven by the inclusion of market based electricity rates. The market based electricity rates were determined through the reverse auction competitive bidding process. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Additionally starting in 2007, ComEd is recovering former manufactured gas plant remediation costs from customers. Purchased Power. Purchased power increased due to higher electricity prices. The PPA with Generation terminated at the end of 2006. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under its supplier forward contracts for the blended and annual products and from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets for the hourly product. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Rate Relief Program Revenue. As part of its program for customer rate relief, ComEd is funding a portion of the credits issued to customers. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Rate Relief Programs. Transmission Revenue. In 2007, ComEd experienced increased revenue from the provision of transmission services resulting from increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Additionally on June 5, 2007, FERC issued an order in ComEds transmission rate case conditionally approving ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate and associated rate increase effective May 1, 2007, subject to refund. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Transmission Rate Case. Purchased Power. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. These charges were being collected subject to refund as they are being disputed. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. SECA charges expired on March 31, 2006. As ComEd was a net collector of SECA charges, ComEd recorded $5 million of net SECA collections in 2006. Also during 2006, ComEd adjusted its reserve for possible SECA refunds. In 2007, based on FERC approval of certain settlements, ComEd reduced its reserve for possible SECA refunds to reflect managements best estimate of the remaining amounts that will ultimately be required to be refunded. The reserve existing at December 31, 2007 continues to represent managements best estimate. Management of ComEd believes that the appropriate reserve has been established in the event that some portion of the remaining SECA collections that are not settled are required to be refunded. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the SECA rates. Weather Revenue. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions for 2007 compared to 2006. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity. Conversely, mild weather in non summer months reduces demand. In ComEds service territory, heating degree days were 8% higher and cooling degree days were 19% higher during 2007 compared to 2006. 101 Table of Contents Purchased Power. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather resulted from higher demand due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Delivery volume Revenue. The increase in revenues for the provision of distribution services primarily resulted from an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers. Customer choice Revenue. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied electricity and generation service. As of December 31, 2007, three competitive electric generation suppliers had been granted approval to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, these suppliers are not currently supplying electricity to any of ComEds residential customers. As a result of ComEds higher electricity rates, more non residential customers have elected to have a competitive electric generation supplier provide their electricity. For 2007 and 2006, 48% and 28%, respectively, of electricity delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers or the ComEd power purchase option (PPO) which is based on market based rates. Most of the customers previously receiving electricity under the PPO are now electing either to buy their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier or from ComEd under tariff rates. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 44,200 20,300 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % (b) Volume (GWhs) (a) 45,070 25,521 Percentage of total retail deliveries 48 % 28 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWh. (b) Less than one percent. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Other Revenue Wholesale Contracts. ComEds revenue decreased $64 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. Revenue City of Chicago Settlement. ComEd paid $23 million under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago, which was recorded as a reduction of revenue. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Revenue Economic Hedge Derivative Contracts. During 2007 as compared to 2006, ComEd had a net $6 million increase in economic hedge derivative contracts activity, including mark to market adjustments and settlements. 102 Table of Contents Purchased Power Wholesale Contracts. ComEds purchased power decreased $50 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 201 Contracting 31 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (b) 26 Wages and salaries 23 Incremental storm related costs 19 Fringe benefits (c) 14 Corporate allocations 11 Materials and supplies expense 8 Post rate freeze period transition expenses (d) 7 Postage 7 Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 346 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC rehearing order, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses including severance costs, MGP costs, procurement case and rate case costs. (b) This increase resulted from a change in collectibility assumptions in response to changes in the customer payment patterns, changes in customer prices, changes in termination practices and certain changes in business and economic conditions. (c) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits primarily due to increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs. (d) Includes increased advertising costs, costs associated with the Rate Relief programs and other costs associated with transitioning to the post rate freeze period. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The assessment indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2007 annual goodwill impairment assessment (performed in the fourth quarter) resulted in no additional impairment. ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2007. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 15 Other amortization expense (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 10 103 Table of Contents In 2006, ComEds amortization primarily reflected $43 million of the amortization of the regulatory asset for recoverable transition costs, while in 2007, ComEds amortization primarily reflected the initial $35 million of amortization of the various regulatory assets authorized by the ICC in its 2006 orders. See Notes 19 and 20 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased for 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a $7 million refund of Illinois Electricity Distribution tax received in 2006. Interest Expense, Net. The increase in interest expense, net for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Interest expense on debt (a) $ 24 Amortization of debt related costs (b) 20 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (c) (32 ) Other (2 ) Increase in interest expense, net $ 10 (a) This increase resulted from higher debt balances and higher interest rates. (b) In 2007, ComEds interest expense, net reflected the initial amortization of the regulatory asset related to the early debt retirement costs authorized by the ICC in 2006. (c) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ (87 ) Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (b) 41 Gain on disposal of assets and investments, net 4 Other 4 Decrease in other, net $ (38 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. (b) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 32.7% for 2007, compared to 133.6% for 2006. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the non deductible impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill accounting. The non deductible goodwill impairment charge decreased income (loss) before income taxes which increased the effective tax rate from continuing operations by 81.6% in 2006. The balance of the reduction was due to a benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization change in 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. 104 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 29,374 28,330 1,044 3.7 % Small commercial & industrial 16,452 24,122 (7,670 ) (31.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,915 10,336 (8,421 ) (81.5 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 766 2,254 (1,488 ) (66.0 )% Total full service 48,507 65,042 (16,535 ) (25.4 )% PPO Small commercial & industrial 16 2,475 (2,459 ) (99.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 34 2,259 (2,225 ) (98.5 )% 50 4,734 (4,684 ) (98.9 )% Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 17,380 5,505 11,875 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 27,122 15,282 11,840 77.5 % Public authorities & electric railroads 518 518 n.m. 45,020 20,787 24,233 116.6 % Total PPO and delivery only 45,070 25,521 19,549 76.6 % Total retail deliveries 93,577 90,563 3,014 3.3 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. n.m. Not meaningful. Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 3,161 $ 2,453 $ 708 28.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,618 1,882 (264 ) (14.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 151 563 (412 ) (73.2 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 67 137 (70 ) (51.1 )% Total full service 4,997 5,035 (38 ) (0.8 )% PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 1 178 (177 ) (99.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 3 137 (134 ) (97.8 )% 4 315 (311 ) (98.7 )% Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 261 85 176 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 276 155 121 78.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 5 5 n.m. 542 240 302 125.8 % Total PPO and delivery only 546 555 (9 ) (1.6 )% Total electric retail revenues 5,543 5,590 (47 ) (0.8 )% Other revenues (d) 561 511 50 9.8 % Total operating revenues $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 3 n.m. (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC through December 2006. 105 Table of Contents (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC through December 2006. (d) Other revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities, other wholesale energy sales and economic hedge derivative contracts. n.m. Not meaningful Results of Operations PECO 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,613 $ 5,168 $ 445 Purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,983 2,702 (281 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,630 2,466 164 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 630 628 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 773 710 (63 ) Taxes other than income 280 262 (18 ) Total other operating expenses 1,683 1,600 (83 ) Operating income 947 866 81 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (248 ) (266 ) 18 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (7 ) (9 ) 2 Other, net 45 30 15 Total other income and deductions (210 ) (245 ) 35 Income before income taxes 737 621 116 Income taxes 230 180 (50 ) Net income 507 441 66 Preferred stock dividends 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 503 $ 437 $ 66 Net Income. PECOs net income for 2007 compared to 2006 increased primarily due to higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense, which reflected increased sales from favorable weather conditions, increased usage across all customer classes for both electric and gas, the completion of certain authorized rate increases that began in 2006 and the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute, as well as the recognition of income resulting from a reduction in the reserve after the successful PURTA tax appeal. Partially offsetting these factors was higher scheduled CTC amortization, which was in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. Electric and Gas Operating Revenues, Purchased Power Expense and Fuel Expense. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 106 Table of Contents The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power expense and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower ExpenseandFuel Expense Net Weather $ 108 $ 47 $ 61 $ 119 $ 98 $ 21 $ 227 $ 145 $ 82 Volume 82 32 50 4 6 (2 ) 86 38 48 Rate increases (decreases) 195 184 11 (114 ) (114 ) 81 70 11 Settlement of PJM billing dispute (10 ) 10 (10 ) 10 Customer choice 8 8 8 8 Other rate changes and mix (28 ) (3 ) (25 ) 5 8 (3 ) (23 ) 5 (28 ) Other 38 4 34 28 21 7 66 25 41 Total increase $ 403 $ 262 $ 141 $ 42 $ 19 $ 23 $ 445 $ 281 $ 164 Weather Revenues. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating degree days and cooling degree days were 16% and 15% higher, respectively, during 2007 compared to 2006. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was due to higher demand as a result of favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Volume Revenues. The increase in revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in expenses as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. Rate increases (decreases) Revenues. The total increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases of $195 million reflected $184 million related to a scheduled electric generation rate increase, which was 107 Table of Contents effective for customer bills for electric generation service delivered after customers January 2007 meter readings. This electric generation rate increase represented the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase did not affect operating income as PECO incurred corresponding and offsetting purchased power expense under its PPA with Generation. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases also reflected $11 million associated with the completion in January 2007 of scheduled CTC and distribution rate increases that began in 2006. The decrease in gas revenues was due to lower market prices for gas, on which the PAPUC approved rates, which are adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas adjustment clause, are based. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2007 was 17% lower than the average rate for 2006. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to electric rate increases reflected the scheduled generation rate increase under the PPA with Generation, which directly offset the increase in revenues. The decrease in fuel expense reflected lower gas prices. Settlement of PJM billing dispute Purchased Power. PECOs purchased power expense decreased $10 million due to the settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. For 2007 and 2006, 2% of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 29,200 34,400 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 2 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 627 767 Percentage of total retail deliveries 2 % 2 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). The increase in electric retail revenue and expense associated with customer choice reflected customers, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class, returning to PECO as their electric supplier. Other rate changes and mix Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues attributable to other rate changes and mix primarily reflected the effects of rate blocking, whereby certain customer charges per unit of energy are reduced when customer usage by certain commercial and industrial customers exceeds a certain threshold. 108 Table of Contents Other revenues and expenses Revenues. The increase in electric revenues was primarily due to increased late payment fees and other factors, none of which were individually significant. The increase in gas revenues was primarily due to increased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel. The increase in fuel expense was due to increased off system sales. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (a) $ 13 Contracting (b) 12 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits (c) 6 Environmental reserve (d) 4 Injuries and damages expense 3 Incremental storm related costs (e) (39 ) Severance related expenses (5 ) PSEG merger integration costs incurred in 2006 (4 ) Other 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) Reflects higher 2007 expense primarily associated with a revision of estimated uncollectible accounts in response to certain changes in business and economic conditions. (b) Reflects higher 2007 contracting expense primarily associated with vegetation management services and tax consulting. (c) Reflects stock compensation, pension and other postretirement benefit costs, among other fringe benefits. (d) Reflects lower expense in 2006 due to a settlement related to a Superfund site. (e) Reflects higher 2006 storm related costs primarily associated with a significant storm in the third quarter of 2006. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) CTC amortization (a) $ 69 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (9 ) Other 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 63 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $9 million in 2006. The new system was implemented in 2006. 109 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 25 State franchise tax adjustment in 2006 (b) 7 Sales and use tax adjustment in 2006 (b) 5 Reduction of reserve related to PURTA tax appeal (c) (17 ) Other (2 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 18 (a) The increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues, as these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities. (b) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. (c) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding PURTA activity. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to scheduled payments on lower long term debt balances owed to PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Other, Net. The increase in other, net for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to interest income recorded as a result of the reduction in the reserve after the successful PURTA tax appeal and interest income related to uncertain tax positions under FIN 48. Partially offsetting these factors were a 2006 investment tax credit refund and a 2006 research and development credit refund. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of other, net. See Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the adoption of FIN 48. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement for additional information regarding PURTA activity. Effective Income Tax Rate. PECOs effective income tax rate was 31.2% for 2007 compared to 29.0% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an investment tax credit refund and a research and development credit refund in 2006, partially offset by the benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. 110 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 13,446 12,796 650 5.1 % Small commercial & industrial 8,288 7,818 470 6.0 % Large commercial & industrial 16,522 15,898 624 3.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 930 906 24 2.6 % Total full service 39,186 37,418 1,768 4.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 42 61 (19 ) (31.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 571 671 (100 ) (14.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 14 35 (21 ) (60.0 )% Total delivery only 627 767 (140 ) (18.3 )% Total retail deliveries 39,813 38,185 1,628 4.3 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,948 $ 1,780 $ 168 9.4 % Small commercial & industrial 1,042 943 99 10.5 % Large commercial & industrial 1,386 1,286 100 7.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 89 83 6 7.2 % Total full service 4,465 4,092 373 9.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 4 5 (1 ) (20.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 30 36 (6 ) (16.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 1 (1 ) (100.0 )% Total delivery only 34 42 (8 ) (19.0 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,499 4,134 365 8.8 % Other revenue (c) 276 238 38 16.0 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,775 $ 4,372 $ 403 9.2 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 111 Table of Contents PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Retail sales 58,968 50,578 8,390 16.6 % Transportation 27,632 25,527 2,105 8.2 % Total 86,600 76,105 10,495 13.8 % Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 784 $ 770 $ 14 1.8 % Transportation 17 16 1 6.3 % Resales and other 37 10 27 n.m. Total gas revenue $ 838 $ 796 $ 42 5.3 % n.m. Not meaningful Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Results of Operations Exelon 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 298 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 5,232 5,670 438 Operating and maintenance 3,868 3,694 (174 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 1,487 1,334 (153 ) Taxes other than income 771 728 (43 ) Total operating expenses 12,134 12,633 499 Operating income 3,521 2,724 797 Other income and deductions Interest expense (616 ) (513 ) (103 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (264 ) (316 ) 52 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (111 ) (134 ) 23 Other, net 266 134 132 Total other income and deductions (725 ) (829 ) 104 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,796 1,895 901 Income taxes 1,206 944 (262 ) Income from continuing operations 1,590 951 639 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 2 14 (12 ) Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,592 965 627 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 42 Net income $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 0.99 112 Table of Contents Net Income. Exelons net income for 2006 reflects higher realized prices on market sales and increased nuclear output at Generation; a one time benefit of approximately $158 million to recover previously incurred severance costs approved by the December 2006 amended ICC rate order; a one time benefit of approximately $130 million to recover certain costs approved by the July 2006 ICC rate order; a decrease in Generations nuclear ARO resulting from changes in managements assessment of the probabilities associated with the anticipated timing of cash flows to decommission primarily AmerGen nuclear plants; unrealized mark to market gains; increased electric revenues at PECO associated with certain authorized rate increases; and increased kWh deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, reflecting load growth at ComEd and PECO. These increases were partially offset by the impact of a $776 million impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill; unfavorable weather conditions in both the ComEd and PECO service territories; a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased severance and severance related charges; losses from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities; increased depreciation and amortization expense, including CTC amortization at PECO; and higher operating and maintenance expenses including increased costs associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory, increased nuclear refueling outage costs, increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R, and the impacts of inflation. Exelons net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1.2 billion associated with ComEds goodwill; unrealized mark to market losses; losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47; favorable tax settlements at Generation and PECO; and gains realized on AmerGens decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation due to an increase in market prices; higher nuclear output; electric rate increases at PECO; and higher kWh deliveries at ComEd and PECO, excluding the effects of weather. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to lower volumes of power purchased in the market and decreased fossil generation, partially offset by overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply in 2006 compared to 22% for 2005. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased nuclear refueling outage costs; increased severance and severance related charges; increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R; and the impacts from inflation. These increases were partially offset by a one time benefit of $201 million to recover certain costs approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order and the ICCs December 2006 amended rate order; the impact of the reduction in Generations estimated nuclear asset retirement obligation; mark to market gains associated with Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities; and a charge for a reserve recorded by Generation in 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2006, ComEd recorded a $776 million impairment charge associated with its goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. During 2005, in connection with the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment, ComEd recorded a $1.2 billion charge. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service across Exelon. 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to a reduction in 2005 of previously established real estate tax reserves at PECO and Generation and a net increase in utility revenue taxes at ComEd and PECO in 2006, partially offset by favorable state franchise tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects increased interest expense associated with the debt issued in 2005 to fund Exelons voluntary pension contribution; higher interest rates on variable rate debt outstanding; higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for pre 1983 spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE; an interest payment to the IRS associated with the settlement of a tax matter at Generation; and a one time benefit of $87 million approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order to recover previously incurred debt expenses to retire debt early. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 43.1% for 2006 compared to 49.8% for 2005. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income tax rate from continuing operations by 9.7% and 22.3% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. The results of Sithe are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $12 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2006 and 2005 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 294 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (142 ) (2 ) (140 ) Total $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 639 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 114 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,128 $ 279 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 965 $ 627 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 ComEd (112 ) (685 ) 573 PECO 441 517 (76 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 3,978 4,482 504 Operating and maintenance 2,305 2,288 (17 ) Depreciation and amortization 279 254 (25 ) Taxes other than income 185 170 (15 ) Total operating expenses 6,747 7,194 447 Operating income 2,396 1,852 544 Other income and deductions Interest expense (159 ) (128 ) (31 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (1 ) (8 ) Other, net 41 95 (54 ) Total other income and deductions (127 ) (34 ) (93 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,269 1,818 451 Income taxes 866 709 (157 ) Income from continuing operations 1,403 1,109 294 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income from discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,407 1,128 279 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 30 Net income $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 115 Table of Contents Net Income. Generations net income for 2006 compared to 2005 increased due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense, higher depreciation expense, higher interest expense and lower other income. The increase in Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense was due to realized revenues associated with forward sales contracts entered into in prior periods which were recognized at higher prices, combined with lower purchased power and fuel expense due to the impact of higher nuclear output. Unlike the energy delivery business, the effects of unusually warm or cold weather on Generation depend on the nature of its market position at the time of the unusual weather. Generations net income for 2006 and 2005 reflects income from discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (after tax), respectively. Operating Revenues. For 2006 and 2005, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,674 $ 4,775 $ (101 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,640 3,341 299 8.9 % Total energy sales revenue 8,314 8,116 198 2.4 % Retail gas sales 540 613 (73 ) (11.9 )% Trading portfolio 14 17 (3 ) (17.6 )% Other revenue (a) 275 300 (25 ) (8.3 )% Total revenue $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 1.1 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales, operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. Sales (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 119,354 121,961 (2,607 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 71,326 72,376 (1,050 ) (1.5 )% Total sales 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% Trading volumes of 31,692 GWhs and 26,924 GWhs for 2006 and 2005, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates decreased $101 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $95 million decrease from lower electric sales volume, as well as a net $6 million decrease resulting from lower prices. In the ComEd territories, lower volumes resulted in a $115 million decrease in revenues as a result of lower demand resulting from milder weather year over year. In addition, price decreases totaling $128 million were a result of lower peak prices under the ComEd PPA. In the PECO territories, the higher volumes resulted in increased revenues of $20 million due to higher usage. The favorable price variance of $122 million was primarily the result of the scheduled PAPUC approved generation rate increase as well as to a lesser degree a change in the mix of average pricing related to the PPA with PECO. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase will take effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will have a favorable effect on Generations operating income in future years. 116 Table of Contents Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 353 Volume (54 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 299 Wholesale and retail sales increased $299 million due to an increase in realized revenues associated with forward sales entered into in prior periods, which were recognized at higher prices for the year ended December 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, offset by a reduction in volumes sold into the market as a result of lower supply. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales decreased $73 million primarily due to lower volumes for 2006 compared to 2005, resulting in a $69 million decrease. Additionally, there was a decrease of $4 million due to lower realized prices for 2006 compared to 2005. Other revenues. The decrease in 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in fossil fuel sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,610 137,936 1,674 1.2 % Purchases non trading portfolio 38,297 42,623 (4,326 ) (10.1 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 12,773 13,778 (1,005 ) (7.3 )% Total supply 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: (in millions) Price Volume Increase(Decrease) Purchased power costs $ (81 ) $ (319 ) $ (400 ) Generation costs 38 4 42 Fuel resale costs 34 (65 ) (31 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. (115 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (504 ) n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation experienced a decrease of $319 million due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market as a result of a lower demand from affiliates. Additionally, overall lower prices paid for purchased power in 2006 compared to 2005 resulted in a $81 million decrease. Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel costs for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increased prices related to nuclear and fossil fuel generation, resulting in a $38 million increase. 117 Table of Contents Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs in 2006 compared to 2005 were a result of a $65 million decrease in the retail gas business resulting from lower volumes, partially offset by overall higher prices paid for gas. Mark to market. Mark to market gains on power derivative activities were $180 million in 2006 compared to losses of $12 million in 2005. Mark to market losses on fuel derivative activities were $77 million in 2006 compared to zero in 2005. Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2006 and 2005 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2006 2005 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 39.16 $ 39.15 n.m. Wholesale and retail electric sales 51.03 46.16 10.6 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 43.60 41.76 4.4 % Average electric supply cost (a) excluding the trading portfolio $ 18.02 $ 20.11 (10.4 )% Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 25.58 $ 21.65 18.2 % (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. n.m. Not meaningful Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2006 2005 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.85 $ 13.03 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. Although total refueling outage days increased during 2006 compared to 2005, the nuclear fleet capacity factor for the Generation operating nuclear fleet increased due to fewer non refueling outage days during 2006 compared to 2005. For 2006 and 2005, non refueling outage days totaled 71 and 112, respectively, and refueling outage days totaled 237 and 217, respectively. Higher costs for nuclear fuel, costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days, higher costs for refueling outage inspection and maintenance activities, costs for the tritium related expenses, an NRC fee increase, and inflationary cost increases for normal plant operations and maintenance offset the higher number of MWhs generated resulting in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2006 as compared to 2005. There were ten planned refueling outages and sixteen non refueling outages during 2006 compared to nine planned refueling outages and twenty five non refueling outages during 2005 at the Generation operated nuclear stations. 118 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Pension, payroll and benefit costs $ 153 Contractor expenses 22 Nuclear refueling outage costs including the co owned Salem plant 19 NRC fees 11 Godley contribution 11 Tritium related expense 9 Reduction in ARO (a) (149 ) 2005 accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (b) (43 ) 2005 co owner settlement with PSEG related to postretirement benefits (17 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 17 (a) For further discussion, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) For further discussion, see Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The $17 million increase in operating and maintenance expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a $153 million increase in various payroll related expenses, including increased stock based compensation expense of $41 million primarily as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R as of January 1, 2006 and increased direct and allocated costs related to payroll, severance, pension and other postretirement benefits, a $22 million period over period increase in contractor costs, primarily related to staff augmentation and recurring maintenance work at Nuclear and Power, a $19 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days during 2006 as compared to 2005, and higher costs for inspection and maintenance activities. Additionally, on December 22, 2006, as a gesture of goodwill and corporate citizenship, Generation contributed approximately $11 million into an escrow account to assist the Godley Public Water District with the installation of a new public drinking water system for the Village of Godley. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 was a result of recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income incurred during 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to increasing the property tax reserve for 2006 property taxes for Byron, Clinton and Dresden, higher payroll related taxes which were the result of higher payroll costs for 2006 and a reduction recorded in 2005 of a previously established real estate reserve associated with the settlement over the TMI real estate assessment. The increases were partially offset by a sales and use tax reserve recorded during the third quarter of 2005 and a gas revenue tax adjustment recorded during the fourth quarter of 2005. Interest Expense. The increase in interest expense during 2006 as compared to 2005 was attributable to higher variable interest rates on debt outstanding, higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE and an interest payment made to the IRS in settlement of a tax matter. Other, Net. The decrease in other income in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to gains realized in the second quarter of 2005 totaling $36 million related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants due to changes in Generations investment strategy. 119 Table of Contents Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 38.2% for 2006 compared to 39.0% for 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe have been presented as discontinued operations within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Generations net income in 2006 and 2005 reflects a gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (both after tax), respectively. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $15 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the second quarter of 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications, accrued interest and collections on receivables arising from the sale of Sithe that had been fully reserved. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. Results of Operations ComEd 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) Purchased power expense 3,292 3,520 228 Revenue net of purchased power expense 2,809 2,744 65 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 745 833 88 Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 430 413 (17 ) Taxes other than income 303 303 Total other operating expenses 2,254 2,756 502 Operating income (loss) 555 (12 ) 567 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (308 ) (291 ) (17 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (10 ) (14 ) 4 Other, net 96 4 92 Total other income and deductions (222 ) (301 ) 79 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 333 (313 ) 646 Income taxes 445 363 (82 ) Loss before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (112 ) (676 ) 564 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) 9 Net loss $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 573 120 Table of Contents Net Loss. ComEds decreased net loss in 2006 compared to 2005 was driven by a smaller impairment of goodwill in 2006, lower purchased power expense and one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July 2006 and December 2006 ICC rate orders as more fully described below, partially offset by lower operating revenues. Operating Revenues and Purchased Power Expense. ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. ComEd has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense RevenueNet ofPurchasedPowerExpense Rate changes and mix $ 23 $ (135 ) $ 158 Volume 84 42 42 Weather (226 ) (111 ) (115 ) Customer choice (67 ) (56 ) (11 ) Other 23 32 (9 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (163 ) $ (228 ) $ 65 Rate changes and mix Revenue. The increase in revenue related to rate and mix changes represents differences in year over year consumption between various customer classes offset by a decline in the CTC paid by customers of competitive electric generation suppliers due to the increase in market energy prices. The average rate paid by various customers is dependent on the amount and time of day that the power is consumed. Changes in customer consumption patterns, including increased usage, can result in an overall decrease in the average rate even though the tariff or rate schedule remains unchanged. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Starting in January 2007, ComEd began collecting revenues consistent with the approved ICC orders in the Procurement Case and the Rate Case. Purchased Power. Purchased power decreased due to the decrease in contracted energy prices under the PPA that ComEd had with Generation. The PPA contract was entered into in March 2004 and reflected forward power prices in existence at that time. The PPA terminated at the end of 2006 and was replaced with the reverse auction process in 2007, which was approved by the ICC. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Volume Revenue. Revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. 121 Table of Contents Purchased Power. The amount of purchased power attributable to volume increased as a result of increased usage by ComEd supplied customers on a weather normalized basis versus the same period in 2005. Weather Revenue. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 20% and 8% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Customer choice Revenue. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2006, one competitive electric generation supplier had been granted approval to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, this supplier was not supplying electricity to any residential customers. For 2006 and 2005, 23% and 21%, respectively, of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. Most of the customers previously receiving energy under the PPO are now electing either to buy their power from a competitive electric generation supplier or from ComEd under bundled rates. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 20,787 19,310 Percentage of total retail deliveries 23 % 21 % Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 20,300 21,300 Percentage of total retail customers (b) (b) Volume (GWhs) (a) 25,521 30,905 Percentage of total retail deliveries 28 % 33 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. Other Revenue Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenues. The wholesale and miscellaneous revenues increase primarily reflects an increase in transmission revenue reflecting increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Revenue Economic Hedge Derivative Contracts. Mark to market contracts primarily reflect a mark to market loss associated with one wholesale contract that had previously been recorded as a normal sale under SFAS No. 133 in 2005. This contract expires in December 2007. 122 Table of Contents Purchased Power PJM transmission. The decrease in PJM transmission expense reflects a decrease in ancillary charges, partially offset by increased peak demand and consumption by ComEd supplied customers. Purchased Power SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. These charges were being collected subject to refund as they are being disputed. As a result of current events related to SECA disputes, during the first quarter of 2006, ComEd increased its reserve for amounts to be refunded. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. As ComEd was a net collector of SECA charges, the 2005 purchased power expense, which reflected a full year of SECA collections, was lower than 2006, which reflected only three months of SECA collections, due to the expiration of SECA charges on March 31, 2006. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the SECA rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ (201 ) Fringe benefits (b) 43 Severance related expenses 17 Wages and salaries 17 Customers Affordable Reliable Energy program 9 Environmental costs 5 Rent and lease expense 5 Storm costs 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Other 11 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (88 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC order on rehearing, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses, including MGP costs, severance costs and procurement case costs. (b) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits, including increased stock based compensation expense of $24 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006 and increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs of $14 million. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2006 annual goodwill impairment assessment (performed in the fourth quarter) resulted in no additional impairment. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd had approximately $2.7 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds PPA with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, 123 Table of Contents regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 12 Other amortization expense 5 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 17 In 2007, ComEds amortization will reflect the elimination of the recoverable transition costs regulatory asset and the initial amortization of the various regulatory assets authorized by the ICC in its July and December 2006 orders. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income remained constant in 2006 compared to 2005. Interest Expense, Net. The increase in interest expense, net in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily resulted from higher debt balances and higher interest rates. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 87 Loss on settlement of 2005 cash flow swaps 15 Sale of receivable in 2005 (3 ) Loss on disposition of assets and investments, net (3 ) Other (4 ) Increase in other, net $ 92 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded a one time benefit associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 133.6% and (116.0)% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income tax rate by 81.6% in 2006 and decreased the effective income tax rate by 135.0% in 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 124 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 28,330 30,042 (1,712 ) (5.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 24,122 21,378 2,744 12.8 % Large commercial & industrial 10,336 7,904 2,432 30.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,254 2,133 121 5.7 % Total full service 65,042 61,457 3,585 5.8 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 2,475 5,591 (3,116 ) (55.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 2,259 6,004 (3,745 ) (62.4 )% 4,734 11,595 (6,861 ) (59.2 )% Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,505 5,677 (172 ) (3.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 15,282 13,633 1,649 12.1 % 20,787 19,310 1,477 7.6 % Total PPO and delivery only 25,521 30,905 (5,384 ) (17.4 )% Total retail deliveries 90,563 92,362 (1,799 ) (1.9 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,453 $ 2,584 $ (131 ) (5.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,882 1,671 211 12.6 % Large commercial & industrial 563 408 155 38.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 137 132 5 3.8 % Total full service 5,035 4,795 240 5.0 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 178 385 (207 ) (53.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 137 345 (208 ) (60.3 )% 315 730 (415 ) (56.8 )% Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 85 95 (10 ) (10.5 )% Large commercial & industrial 155 156 (1 ) (0.6 )% 240 251 (11 ) (4.4 )% Total PPO and delivery only 555 981 (426 ) (43.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 5,590 5,776 (186 ) (3.2 )% Other revenues (d) 511 488 23 4.7 % Total operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) (2.6 )% (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC through December 2006. 125 Table of Contents (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC through December 2006. (d) Other revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities, other wholesale energy sales and economic hedge derivative contracts. Results of Operations PECO 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 258 Purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,702 2,515 (187 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,466 2,395 71 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 628 549 (79 ) Depreciation and amortization 710 566 (144 ) Taxes other than income 262 231 (31 ) Total other operating expenses 1,600 1,346 (254 ) Operating income 866 1,049 (183 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (266 ) (279 ) 13 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (16 ) 7 Other, net 30 13 17 Total other income and deductions (245 ) (282 ) 37 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 621 767 (146 ) Income taxes 180 247 67 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 441 520 (79 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) 3 Net income 441 517 (76 ) Preferred stock dividends 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 437 $ 513 $ (76 ) Net Income. PECOs net income in 2006 decreased primarily due to higher scheduled CTC amortization and higher operating and maintenance expense, which reflected higher storm costs. Partially offsetting these factors were higher revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense. Higher net revenues reflected certain authorized electric rate increases, including a scheduled CTC rate increase, partially offset by lower net electric and gas revenues as a result of unfavorable weather relative to the prior year. The increases in CTC amortization expense and CTC rates were in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC. The increase in CTC amortization expense exceeded the increase in CTC revenues. Electric and Gas Operating Revenues, Purchased Power Expense and Fuel Expense. PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric and revenue net of fuel expense for gas. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of 126 Table of Contents purchased power expense and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power expense and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower ExpenseandFuel Expense Net Rate increases $ 237 $ 94 $ 143 $ 127 $ 127 $ $ 364 $ 221 $ 143 Unbilled revenue change in estimate 35 14 21 35 14 21 Volume 20 4 16 (10 ) (13 ) 3 10 (9 ) 19 Customer choice 62 62 62 62 Weather (91 ) (39 ) (52 ) (130 ) (107 ) (23 ) (221 ) (146 ) (75 ) PJM transmission 26 31 (5 ) 26 31 (5 ) Other rate changes and mix (10 ) (7 ) (3 ) (10 ) (7 ) (3 ) Other 27 (27 ) (8 ) (6 ) (2 ) (8 ) 21 (29 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 279 $ 186 $ 93 $ (21 ) $ 1 $ (22 ) $ 258 $ 187 $ 71 Rate increases Revenues. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases reflected scheduled CTC and generation rate increases in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC and the elimination of the aggregate $200 million electric distribution rate reductions over the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005 (approximately $40 million in 2005) related to the PAPUCs approval of the merger between PECO and ComEd. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase took effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will not affect operating income as PECO will incur corresponding and offsetting purchased power expenses under its PPA with Generation. The increase in gas revenues was due to higher market prices for gas on which the PAPUC approved rates, which are adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas adjustment clause, are based. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was 30% higher than the average rate for the same period in 2005. While PECOs average purchased gas cost rate was higher in 2006 compared to 2005, quarterly changes to purchased gas cost rates since March 1, 2006 have resulted in decreases to the rates, with the September 1, 2006 and December 1, 2006 rate decreases resulting in lower rates in 2006 compared to comparable periods in 2005. This trend will continue into the first quarter of 2007, during the peak of PECOs winter heating season, as first quarter of 2007 rates will be significantly lower than first quarter of 2006 rates. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. PECOs purchased power expense increased $87 million corresponding to the increase in electric revenues which was attributable to the scheduled PAPUC 127 Table of Contents approved generation rate increase. In addition, PECOs purchased power expense increased $7 million due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher average gas prices. Unbilled revenue change in estimate Revenues. In 2006, PECO recorded a $35 million increase to unbilled electric revenues associated with a change in estimate in the amount of revenue recognized, although unbilled, at the end of 2006. As discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, the nature of the unbilled revenue calculation is inherently an estimation process. As a result of Exelons integration efforts associated with its then pending merger with PSEG and PECOs implementation of a new customer information management system in 2006, PECO received new information with which to better analyze the data underlying its unbilled revenue calculation. This amount is partially offset by a $14 million increase in purchased power expense as noted below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. In 2006, PECO recorded a $14 million increase to purchased power associated with a change in estimate for unbilled electric revenue as the energy component of the estimate change is passed onto Generation. Volume Revenues. The increase in electric revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was primarily due to an increased number of customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was primarily due to an increased number of customers. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. For 2006 and 2005, 2% and 5%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 34,400 44,500 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 3 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 767 2,094 Percentage of total retail deliveries 2 % 5 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). 128 Table of Contents The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice reflected customers from all customer classes returning to PECO as their electric supplier as a result of rising wholesale energy prices and a number of competitive electric generation suppliers exiting the market during 2005 and 2006. Weather Revenues. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating and cooling degree days were 18% and 15% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to lower demand as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. PJM Transmission Revenues. The increase in PJM transmission revenues reflected increased peak demand and consumption by PECO supplied customers due to load growth as well as an increase in PECO supplied customers driven by more customers choosing PECO for supply due to competitive electric generation suppliers higher market prices. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in PJM transmission expense reflected increased peak demand and consumption by PECO supplied customers due to load growth as well as an increase in PECO supplied customers driven by more customers choosing PECO for supply due to competitive electric generation suppliers higher market prices. Other rate changes and mix Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues attributable to other rate changes and mix was primarily due to increased large commercial and industrial sales, which are billed at lower rates relative to other customer classes, and lower rates for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were lower in the latter part of 2006 relative to 2005. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power attributable to other rate changes and mix was primarily due to increased large commercial and industrial sales, which are billed at lower rates relative to other customer classes, and lower rates for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were lower in the latter part of 2006 relative to 2005. Other revenue and expenses Revenues. There was no overall change in electric revenues, although there were increased sales of energy into the PJM spot market, which were completely offset by variances in other revenue categories, none of which were individually material. If PECOs energy needs are less than the daily amount scheduled, the excess is sold into the PJM spot market. Revenues from these sales are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas revenues was due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in electric purchased power expense was primarily due to increased energy purchases in the PJM spot market. If PECOs energy needs are 129 Table of Contents greater than the daily amount scheduled, the shortfall is secured through purchases in the PJM spot market. These additional costs are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas fuel expense was related to decreased off system sales. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Storm costs $ 36 Contractors (a) 14 Allowance for uncollectible accounts (b) 13 Fringe benefits (c) 11 Severance related expenses 6 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Injuries and damages (6 ) Environmental reserve (d) (4 ) Other 7 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 79 (a) Reflects higher professional fees, including $9 million associated with tax consulting, and various other increases. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding tax consulting fees. (b) Reflects the following factors, all of which increased expense in 2006 as compared to 2005: (i) higher average accounts receivable balances in 2006 compared to 2005 resulting from increased revenues; (ii) changes in PAPUC approved regulations related to customer payment terms; and (iii) an increase in the number of low income customers participating in customer assistance programs, which allow for the forgiveness of certain receivables. (c) Reflects increased stock based compensation expense of $11 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006. (d) Represents a settlement related to one Superfund site in 2006. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) CTC amortization (a) $ 146 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (4 ) Other 2 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 144 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The new system was implemented in 2006. 130 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 14 State franchise tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (b) 10 Real estate tax adjustment in 2005 (c) 6 Sales and use tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (2 ) Other 3 Increase in taxes other than income $ 31 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 of $7 million following settlements related to prior year tax assessments and the $17 million reduction of an accrual in 2005 related to prior years. (c) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in 2005 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to scheduled payments on lower long term debt balances owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with the September 2006 issuance of $300 million First Mortgage Bonds, higher interest rates on variable rate long term debt and an increased amount of commercial paper outstanding at higher rates. Other, Net. The increase in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to interest income associated with an investment tax credit refund of $11 million and interest income associated with a research and development credit refund of $10 million in 2006. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of other, net. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in net interest expense of PETT due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Effective Income Tax Rate. PECOs effective income tax rate was 29.0% for 2006 compared to 32.2% for 2005. The lower effective tax rate in 2006 reflects investment tax credit and research and development credit refunds in 2006. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 131 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 12,796 13,135 (339 ) (2.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 7,818 7,263 555 7.6 % Large commercial & industrial 15,898 15,205 693 4.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 906 962 (56 ) (5.8 )% Total full service 37,418 36,565 853 2.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 61 334 (273 ) (81.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 671 1,257 (586 ) (46.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 35 503 (468 ) (93.0 )% Total delivery only 767 2,094 (1,327 ) (63.4 )% Total retail deliveries 38,185 38,659 (474 ) (1.2 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,780 $ 1,705 $ 75 4.4 % Small commercial & industrial 943 818 125 15.3 % Large commercial & industrial 1,286 1,173 113 9.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 83 84 (1 ) (1.2 )% Total full service 4,092 3,780 312 8.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 5 25 (20 ) (80.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 36 63 (27 ) (42.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 1 13 (12 ) (92.3 )% Total delivery only 42 101 (59 ) (58.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,134 3,881 253 6.5 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 238 212 26 12.3 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,372 $ 4,093 $ 279 6.8 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 132 Table of Contents PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales 50,578 59,751 (9,173 ) (15.4 )% Transportation 25,527 25,310 217 0.9 % Total 76,105 85,061 (8,956 ) (10.5 )% Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 770 $ 783 $ (13 ) (1.7 )% Transportation 16 16 % Resales and other 10 18 (8 ) (44.4 )% Total gas revenue $ 796 $ 817 $ (21 ) (2.6 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. Generation, ComEd and PECO, may also receive capital contributions from Exelon if Exelon determines it is appropriate. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. Exelon, Generation and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs and to issue letters of credit. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had $370 million of credit facility borrowings since its access to the commercial paper market is limited due to its current credit ratings. See the Credit Issues section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating, financing and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, each of Exelons, ComEds and PECOs working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd and PECO intend to refinance maturing debt in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd has the capacity to issue approximately $2.8 billion of first mortgage bonds as a result of replacing its secured credit facility, which contained a restriction on a portion of such bond issuances, with an unsecured credit facility, which does not contain such a restriction. To manage cash flows as more fully described below, ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006 or 2007. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. During 2007 as compared to 2006, ComEd experienced a decrease in operating cash flows primarily due to a change in its payment terms with energy suppliers resulting from downgraded credit 133 Table of Contents ratings and due to under recovery of energy costs, which have been recognized as a regulatory asset. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which ComEd is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 nor additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows will be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Beginning in 2007, ComEd began purchasing electricity through the ICC authorized reverse auction process in order to meet the retail electricity needs of ComEds customers because ComEd does not own any generation. The Settlement Legislation enacted in August 2007 should provide ComEd with greater stability and certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to its customers and reduce the risk of rate freeze or similar legislation being proposed in the near future. ComEd has implemented various programs to assist its residential customers, including a $64 million rate relief package and other initiatives. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of ComEds procurement case and rate relief efforts. Beginning in 2007, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. These incremental bilateral contracts are subject to the credit risk associated with the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations to Generation. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. When Generation sells power, as market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. To the extent Generation does not have enough collateral to cover its risk of payment collection, Generations revenues are at risk. With respect to Generations sales, when market prices decrease, there is a corresponding increase in Generations revenues at risk. Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, collateral postings are one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, ComEd or 134 Table of Contents Ameren, as the case may be, is not required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation is required to post collateral. To the extent Ameren or ComEd do not or cannot pay Generation under the supplier forward contracts, Generation is therefore exposed. Under the terms of the five year financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, if ComEd achieves an investment grade rating from Moodys Investor Service (Moodys) or Standard & Poors (S&P), and then is later downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from ComEd; conversely, should Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from Generation. Should both ComEd rise above investment grade and then subsequently be downgraded below investment grade and Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be required from either party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. Under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Generations collateral policy. Additionally, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken tax return positions to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. In the third quarter of 2007, Exelon received the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) audit report for the taxable period 1999 through 2001 which reflected the full disallowance of the deferral of gain. Exelon disagrees with the IRSs characterization of this transaction and believes its position is justified. Furthermore, the IRS asserted penalties. In the third quarter of 2007, Exelon appealed the disallowance of the deferral of gain as well as the assertion of the penalties to IRS Appeals. This potential tax obligation is significant and an adverse determination could require a significant payment. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding ComEds tax position on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations: 2007 2006 Variance Net income $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 2,845 3,213 (368 ) Income taxes 160 69 91 Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (1,041 ) 141 (1,182 ) Pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments, net (204 ) (180 ) (24 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,496 $ 4,835 $ (339 ) (a) Includes depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, pension and other postretirement benefits expense, other decommissioning related activities, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment charges, pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments and other non cash items. See Note 20 Supplemental Financial Information for additional information on non cash operating activities. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ 4,496 $ 4,835 Generation 2,994 2,550 ComEd 520 987 PECO 980 1,017 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in the respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $50 million to the Exelon Foundation, a nonconsolidated not for profit Illinois corporation. The Exelon Foundation was established in the fourth quarter of 2007 to serve educational and environmental philanthropic purposes. Generation During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed approximately $408 million in 2007. On October 15, 2007, Generation entered into an agreement (Termination Agreement) with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Dominion Resources Inc. to terminate the Power Purchase Agreement dated as of April 17, 1996 (as amended, the PPA) between State Line and Generation relating to the State Line generating facility in Hammond, Indiana, under which Generation controls 515 MW of electric energy and capacity from the State Line facility. Generation became a party to the PPA and various other related agreements by assignment from ComEd as of January 1, 2001. FERC approved the Termination Agreement on October 18, 2007. Further, the conditions to the effectiveness of the Termination Agreement were subsequently satisfied and Generation received a net cash payment from State Line of approximately $228 million, after adjustments, in consideration for the termination of the PPA and the purchase of coal inventories on hand (and in transit) and other assets. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Generation had accounts receivable from ComEd under its supplier forward agreement and the PPA, which expired on December 31, 2006, of $60 million, $197 million and $242 million, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower revenues resulting from the expiration of the PPA with ComEd as well as ComEd making semi monthly payments under its supplier forward contracts in 2007 as opposed to making monthly payments under the PPA in 2006. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Generation had accounts receivable from PECO under the PPA of $121 million, $153 million and $151 million, respectively. During 2007, Generation had net disbursements of counterparty collateral of $(518) million compared to $431 million of net collections of counterparty collateral in 2006. The decrease in cash flows was primarily due to changes in collateral requirements resulting from changes in market prices and increased activity within exchange based markets for energy and fossil fuel. During 2007, Generation had net receipts of approximately $28 million and during 2006 had net payments of $220 million related to option premiums, primarily due to lower activity in 2006 compared to 2007 due to changes in market prices. During 2005, Exelon received a $102 million Federal income tax refund for capital losses generated in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. In the first quarter of 2006, Exelon remitted a $98 million payment to the IRS in connection with the settlement of the IRSs challenge of the timing of the above described 136 Table of Contents deduction. This payment included $6 million of interest which was recognized as interest expense in the first quarter of 2006. Exelon received approximately $92 million on December 13, 2006 related to this same deduction in connection with the filing of its 2005 tax return. ComEd As a result of downgraded credit ratings in early 2007, ComEd is making accelerated semi monthly payments under its supplier forward contracts with its energy suppliers, including Generation. Prior to the credit ratings downgrade, ComEd made monthly payments to its energy suppliers. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, ComEd had accrued payments to Generation for energy purchases of $60 million, $197 million, and $242 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, ComEd had accrued payments to other energy suppliers of $82 million, $10 million, and $12 respectively. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had net under recovered energy costs of $97 million. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. During 2007, ComEds revenue exceeded its cash collections from customers by $103 million. During 2006, ComEds cash collections exceeded its revenue from customers by $6 million. As part of its rate relief programs, at December 31, 2007, ComEd had $13 million deposited in an escrow account classified as restricted cash. As ComEd issues credits to customers and funds various customer programs, ComEd will request reimbursements from the escrow account. As part of the Settlement and its rate relief programs, ComEd contributed approximately $41 million to rate relief programs in 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the rate relief programs. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ (2,909 ) $ (2,762 ) Generation (1,424 ) (1,406 ) ComEd (1,015 ) (894 ) PECO (337 ) (332 ) Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2007 and projected amounts for 2008 are as follows: 2007 2008 Generation (a) $ 1,269 $ 1,599 ComEd 1,040 1,003 PECO 339 394 Other (b) 26 122 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 2,674 $ 3,118 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Projected capital expenditures and other investments by the Registrants are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. 137 Table of Contents Generation. Generations capital expenditures for 2007 reflected additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages) and nuclear fuel. Generation anticipates that its capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEd and PECO. ComEd and PECO are continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that their capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings and the issuance of debt or preferred securities. Other significant investing activities for Exelon, Generation, and PECO for 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $93 million and $92 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Generation During 2007, Generation received approximately $42 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to its retired units. On February 9, 2007, Tamuin International Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Generation, sold its 49.5% ownership interests in TEG and TEP to a subsidiary of AES Corporation for $95 million in cash plus certain purchase price adjustments. On March 31, 2006, Generation entered into an agreement to accelerate the acquisition of Peoples Calumets 30% interest in SCEP. Prior to this agreement, Generation was obligated to purchase Peoples Calumets 30% interest ratably over a 20 year period. This transaction closed on May 31, 2006. Under the agreement, Generation paid Peoples Calumet approximately $47 million for its remaining interest in SCEP. Generation financed this transaction using short term debt and available cash. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ (1,500 ) $ (1,989 ) Generation (1,571 ) (1,050 ) ComEd 547 (96 ) PECO (638 ) (693 ) 138 Table of Contents Debt. Debt activity for 2007 and 2006 by registrant was as follows: Company Issuance of long term debt in 2007 Use of proceeds Generation $700 million of 6.20% Senior Notes, due October 1, 2017 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. Generation $46 million of Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 Will be used to finance a portion of the construction and installation costs of emissions control facilities at Keystone Generating Station ComEd Additional $300 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to refinance outstanding commercial paper and to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility. ComEd $425 million of First Mortgage 6.15% Bonds, Series 106, due September 15, 2017 Used to repay borrowings made under its revolving credit agreement. PECO $175 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.70% Series due March 15, 2037 Used to supplement working capital previously financed through sales of commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuance of long term debt in 2006 Use of proceeds ComEd $325 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to supplement working capital previously used to refinance amounts that ComEd used to repay bonds and notes. ComEd $300 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd Additional $115 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay bonds at maturity. ComEd $345 million of First Mortgage 5.40% Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 Used to repay borrowings under ComEds revolving credit agreement which had been used to repay bonds and to refinance notes. PECO $300 million of First Mortgage Bonds 5.95% Series, due October 1, 2036 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. On January 16, 2008, ComEd issued $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038. The proceeds were used to refinance maturing First Mortgage Bonds and will be used for the early redemption of trust preferred securities. 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2007 Exelon $88 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 ComEd $145 million of 7.625% note payable, due January 15, 2007 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $17 million of variable rate special agreement accounts receivable, due November 2010 ComEd $138 million of 5.63% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due June 25, 2007 (a)(b) ComEd $236 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 PECO $641 million of 6.13% PETT, due September 1, 2008 PECO $30 million of 7.625% PETT, due March 1, 2009 (a) Amount includes $17 million previously reflected in prepaid interest. This amount did not impact ComEds Consolidated Statement of Operations or ComEds Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. (b) ComEd applied $8 million of previously prepaid balances against the long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2006 Exelon $50 million of 6.00 800% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 ComEd $199 million of 4.40% Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, due December 1, 2006 ComEd $95 million of 8.25% First Mortgage Bonds, due October 1, 2006 ComEd $31 million of 8.375% First Mortgage Bonds, due October 15, 2006 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates ComEd $339 million of 5.63% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due June 25, 2007 PECO $522 million of 6.05% PETT, due March 1, 2007 PECO $49 million of 6.13% PETT, due September 1, 2008 Other $15 million of various other debt agreements See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Registrants debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ 1,180 $ 1,071 Generation 2,357 609 PECO 566 506 Exelon paid dividends of $296 million, $296 million, $297 million, and $291 million on March 10, 2007, June 11, 2007, September 10, 2007 and December 10, 2007, respectively, to shareholders of 140 Table of Contents record at the close of business on February 15, 2007, May 15, 2007, August 15, 2007 and November 15, 2007, respectively. On December 19, 2007, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2008. Exelon paid dividends of $267 million, $268 million, $268 million and $268 million on March 10, 2006, June 12, 2006, September 11, 2006 and December 11, 2006, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2006, May 15, 2006, August 15, 2006 and November 15, 2006, respectively. See Dividends section of ITEM 5 for a further discussion of Exelons dividend policy. During 2007 and 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. The decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend after 2007. Share Repurchases. Exelons Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on August 31, 2007 in connection with Exelons value return policy. This policy uses share repurchases from time to time to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. On September 4, 2007, Exelon entered into agreements with two investment banks to repurchase a total of $1.25 billion of Exelons common shares under an accelerated share repurchase arrangement. In September 2007, Exelon received 15.1 million shares in accordance with the accelerated share repurchase agreements, which were recorded as treasury stock, at cost, for $1.17 billion. In 2007, Exelon purchased $1.2 billion of treasury shares under Exelons 2007 share repurchase program. Additionally, in connection with the accelerated share repurchase program, Exelon purchased a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock of $79 million during 2007. In 2006, Exelon purchased $186 million of treasury shares under Exelons 2004 share repurchase plan. On December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500 million of Exelons outstanding common stock. See Note 17 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons share repurchases. Intercompany Money Pool. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool did not change during 2007 and decreased $92 million during 2006. During 2006, ComEd repaid $140 million that it had borrowed from the Exelon intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd suspended participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool decreased $45 million and increased $45 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Short Term Borrowings. During 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO (repaid) issued $(59) million, $(60) million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO repaid $685 million, $311 million, $399 million and $125 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. At December 31, 2007, Exelon and ComEd had $370 million of outstanding borrowings under ComEds credit agreement. In 2006, Exelon terminated its $300 million term loan agreement. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 141 Table of Contents Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 2006 Exelon $ 1,020 $ 910 ComEd 349 339 PECO 671 571 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 2006 Generation $ 54 $ 25 ComEd 28 37 PECO 338 181 Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $215 million and $184 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Exelons other financing activities reflects $97 million and $60 million of excess tax benefits during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon, Generation and PECO meet their short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through borrowings from its credit facility. The Registrants may use credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including meeting short term funding requirements and the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2007, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. In September 2007, Exelon, Generation, and PECO received consent from 26 of 28 of their lenders to extend the terms of their respective credit agreements by one year, representing $6.3 billion of the $6.6 billion of original commitments. The extension took effect on October 26, 2007 and extended the termination date of the credit agreements to October 26, 2012. These revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at the Registrants and to issue letters of credit. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants credit facilities. 142 Table of Contents At December 31, 2007, the Registrants had the following aggregate bank commitments and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower AggregateBankCommitment (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon Corporate $ 1,000 $ 993 $ Generation 5,000 4,866 ComEd 1,000 586 PECO 600 598 246 (a) Represents the total bank commitments to the borrower under credit agreements to which the borrower is a party. (b) Available capacity represents the unused bank commitments under the borrowers credit agreements net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit agreements. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 162.5 basis points for the unsecured facility. The average interest rates on short term debt (facility borrowings and commercial paper) for 2007 for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO were approximately 5.55%, 5.51%, 6.01% and 5.09%, respectively. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and interest on nonrecourse debt. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the year ended December 31, 2007: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2007, the Registrants were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2007, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 44 % 37 % 36 % 28 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 11 5 33 Common equity 43 56 34 Members equity 63 Preferred securities 1 Commercial paper and notes payable 2 3 4 (a) As of December 31, 2007, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $784 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table, but is excluded from the percentages in this footnote), consisted of 42% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 4% notes payable and 53% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. 143 Table of Contents (b) Includes $2.5 billion, $0.6 billion and $1.9 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property consisting of CTCs of ComEd and PECO or mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Subprime Credit Crisis Due to recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets, the fair value of subprime related investments have declined. This decline in fair value has become especially problematic for certain large financial institutions. Therefore, the Registrants performed an assessment of their ability to obtain financing and concluded that they expect to have access to liquidity in the capital markets at reasonable rates. In addition, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively, which are not restricted upon general market conditions. Exelon and Generation have also performed an assessment of their investments held in trusts, which will be used by Exelon to satisfy future obligations under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans and by Generation to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants. Exelon and Generation have determined that a decline in the fair value of the subprime related investments is not expected to be material. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd and PECO had $343 million and $154 million respectively of tax exempt long term debt that is insured by AAA rated bond insurers, namely Ambac Assurance Corporation, Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. and XL Capital Assurance Inc. Due to the exposure that these bond insurers have in connection with recent developments in the subprime credit market, the rating agencies have put these insurers on review for possible downgrade. Fitch has since lowered the credit ratings of Ambac Assurance Corporation from AAA to AA, Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. from AAA to AA, and XL Capital Assurance Inc. from AAA to A. The ComEd and PECO bonds are sold at auction rates that are reset every 7 or 35 days. If there is a loss of confidence in the creditworthiness of the bond insurers, ComEd and PECO could experience a loss in liquidity in the markets for their insured bonds. The instruments under which the bonds are issued allow ComEd and PECO to convert to other short term variable rate structures, term put structures and fixed rate structures. As of December 31, 2007, Generation had $566 million in tax exempt long term debt outstanding in the commercial paper, weekly and daily reset structures, of which $520 million is backed by letters of credit and $46 million is unenhanced. Generation does not have any bonds insured by the aforementioned AAA rated bond insurers. 144 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the intercompany money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons treasurer. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2007 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2007: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2007Contributed (Borrowed) Generation $ 314 $ 127 $ PECO 60 222 BSC 87 165 (9 ) Exelon 113 9 Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2007: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Ba1 B+ BBB Senior secured debt Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper Not prime B B Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F2 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (b) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On March 9, 2007, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) downgraded the debt ratings of ComEds senior secured debt (from BBB+ to BBB), senior unsecured debt (from BBB to BB+) and commercial paper (from F2 to B) due to Fitchs concerns regarding the continued legislative efforts to freeze rates and the prospects for adequate and timely cost recovery through future rate increases. On June 12, 2007, Fitch downgraded PECOs commercial paper rating from F1 to F2. According to Fitch, the ratings do not reflect any deterioration of PECOs liquidity profile; rather, they reflect a change to Fitchs short term and long term rating linkage practices. On August 1, 2007, Fitch placed ComEds ratings under Ratings Watch Positive following the Illinois House and Senate approval of the Settlement Legislation. 145 Table of Contents On August 29, 2007, Fitch removed ComEds ratings under Ratings Watch Positive and upgraded ComEds senior unsecured debt ratings from BB+ to BBB after the Governor signed the Settlement Legislation. On March 26, 2007, Moodys downgraded ComEds senior unsecured debt (from Baa3 to Ba1) and commercial paper (from Prime 3 to Not Prime) due to continued regulatory and political uncertainty in Illinois. On August 29, 2007, Moodys removed ComEds ratings from review for possible downgrade and affirmed its current ratings. ComEds rating outlook from Moodys is stable. On September 21, 2007, Moodys upgraded Exelons and Generations issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings. Exelons issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings were upgraded from Baa2 to Baa1. Generations issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings were upgraded from Baa1 to A3. Exelons and Generations ratings outlooks are stable. On June 1, 2007, S&P downgraded ComEds short term and long term security ratings due to the continued regulatory and political uncertainty encountered by ComEd. ComEds commercial paper rating was downgraded to B from A 3, its senior secured debt rating was downgraded to BBB from BBB and its senior unsecured debt rating was downgraded to B from BB+. On August 29, 2007, S&P removed the Registrants ratings from CreditWatch with negative implications and affirmed their ratings. ComEds rating outlook from S&P is positive. Exelons, Generations and PECOs ratings outlooks are stable. On September 6, 2007, S&P revised its methodology for rating secured debt and upgraded ComEds (from BBB to BBB) and PECOs (from A to A) senior secured debt ratings. None of the Registrants borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under the Registrants credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2007, the Registrants had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. 146 Table of Contents Regulatory Restrictions The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd had $427 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $303 million in new money long term debt financing authority, of which ComEd used $427 million and $23 million, respectively, in January 2008. In December 2007, ComEd filed for an additional $700 million in new money long term debt financing authority from the ICC and expects to receive an order related to this filing during the first quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2007, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and Generations financings. In September 2007, ComEd and PECO filed requests with FERC for short term financing authority in the amounts of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The requested authorizations were approved on December 4, 2007 and expire on December 31, 2009; they replaced the authorizations that were set to expire on December 31, 2007. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC with its market based rate authority. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2006 and 2007, ComEd did not pay any dividend. At December 31, 2007, Exelon had retained earnings of $4.9 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $1,429 million, ComEds retained deficit of $(29) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1,639) million partially offset by $1,610 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends, and PECOs retained earnings of $548 million. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owns interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that own synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45K contains a provision under which the tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. The following table (in dollars) provides the estimated phase out range for 2007: 2007 Beginning of Phase Out Range (a) $ 57 End of Phase Out Range (a) 71 2007 Estimated Average U.S. Crude Oil Wellhead Acquisition Price by First Purchasers 66 (a) The estimated 2007 phase out range is based upon the range stated in the Section 45K of the IRC adjusted for an approximate 3% increase for inflation. 147 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2007, Exelon has estimated the 2007 phase out to be 68%, which has reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $251 million to $81 million for 2007. Exelon anticipates that it will generate approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments. As a result of the phase out of tax credits in 2007 and the timing of the realization of tax benefits earned in prior years, Exelon will collect approximately $200 million of cash in 2008. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 10,510 $ 603 $ 639 $ 2,626 $ 6,642 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 2,551 501 1,505 545 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 6,030 549 1,062 826 3,593 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,089 169 173 76 671 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 504 504 Capital leases 43 2 4 4 33 Operating leases 796 75 133 124 464 Purchase power obligations (c) 4,237 808 663 711 2,055 Fuel purchase agreements 5,333 1,090 1,851 1,340 1,052 Other purchase obligations (c)(d) 857 236 296 215 110 Chicago agreement 2003 (e) 30 6 12 12 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 997 997 Pension minimum funding requirement (f) 353 63 158 132 Other postretirement benefits minimum funding requirement (g) 229 47 97 85 Total contractual obligations $ 33,559 $ 4,149 $ 6,593 $ 6,151 $ 16,162 $ 504 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. (b) As of December 31, 2007, Exelons FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $460 million and $44 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2007. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Does not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (f) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Pension Protection Act of 2006. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2012 are currently not available. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary based upon the status of the plans. (g) These amounts represent PECOs estimated minimum other postretirement benefit contributions required under a PAPUC rate order to fund the cost of a regulated entity under SFAS No. 106. These minimum contributions represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2012 are currently not available. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary based upon the status of the plans. 148 Table of Contents Exelons commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 225 $ 225 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 15 15 Surety bonds (c) 109 31 78 Performance guarantees (d) 303 1 3 3 296 Energy marketing contract guarantees (e) 272 242 25 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (f) 1,710 1,710 Lease guarantees (g) 141 4 137 Chicago agreement 2007 (h) 32 18 11 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (i) 18 4 8 6 Exelon New England guarantees (j) 63 1 2 2 58 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (k) 439 290 125 24 Construction commitments (l) 219 51 104 64 Total commitments $ 3,546 $ 863 $ 272 $ 127 $ 2,284 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2007, Exelon had $143 million of outstanding letters of credit (non debt) issued under its $6.6 billion credit agreements. Guarantees of $15 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $520 million is reflected in long term debt in Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (d) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (e) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (f) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (g) Lease guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure payments on building leases. (h) Chicago agreement 2007 In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $23 million was paid in December 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the City of Chicago Settlement. (i) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago (Chicago) entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, $2 million is included as a liability on Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007. (j) Exelon New England guarantees Mystic Development LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, approximately $12 million and $1 million are included as a noncurrent liability and current liability, respectively, within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Other guarantees associated with Exelon New England included in current liabilities total less than $1 million. (k) See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds and PECOs construction commitments. 149 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment Due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 2,485 $ 10 $ 9 $ 700 $ 1,766 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,199 139 277 224 559 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 38 38 Capital leases 43 2 4 4 33 Operating leases 474 29 51 48 346 Purchase power obligations (c) 4,237 808 663 711 2,055 Fuel purchase agreements 4,818 916 1,667 1,241 994 Other purchase commitments (d) 583 119 210 175 79 Pension minimum funding requirement (e) 65 16 30 19 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 997 997 Total contractual obligations $ 14,939 $ 2,039 $ 2,911 $ 3,122 $ 6,829 $ 38 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. (b) As of December 31, 2007, Generations FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $16 million and $22 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2007. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) These amounts represent Generations estimated minimum pension contributions required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2012 are currently not available. Generation may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary based upon the status of the plans. Generations commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a)(b) $ 142 $ 142 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (c) 15 15 Surety bonds (d) 3 3 Performance guarantees (e) 303 1 3 3 296 Energy marketing contract guarantees (f) 272 242 25 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (g) 1,710 1,710 Exelon New England guarantees (h) 63 1 2 2 58 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (i) 416 277 115 24 Other 6 6 Total commitments $ 2,930 $ 672 $ 135 $ 54 $ 2,069 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. Guarantees of $11 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. 150 Table of Contents (b) The amount includes letters of credit that are posted to ComEd related to the Illinois procurement auction. (c) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $520 million is reflected in long term debt in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (f) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (h) Exelon New England guarantees Mystic Development LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, approximately $12 million and $1 million are included as a noncurrent liability and current liability, respectively, within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Other guarantees associated with Exelon New England included in current liabilities total less than $1 million. (i) See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on Generations rate relief commitments. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $13 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permitted ComEd through December 31, 2006, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. At December 31, 2007, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets related to its nuclear fueled generating facilities was approximately $3.6 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Following the completion of decommissioning activities, any excess nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to the former ComEd and PECO nuclear power plants will be required to be refunded to ComEd or PECO, as appropriate. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held approximately $6.8 billion of investments in trust funds, including unrealized gains at December 31, 2007. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. 151 Table of Contents ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 4,175 $ 122 $ 230 $ 797 $ 3,026 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 635 274 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,552 221 428 370 1,533 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 595 35 52 52 456 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 491 491 Operating leases 128 21 34 30 43 Other purchase commitments (c) 57 40 14 3 Chicago agreement 2003 (d) 30 6 12 12 Total contractual obligations $ 8,663 $ 719 $ 770 $ 1,264 $ 5,419 $ 491 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2007, ComEds FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $403 million and $88 million, respectively. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. Other purchase commitments do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds supplier forward contracts. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. ComEds commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 44 $ 44 $ $ $ Chicago agreement 2007 (b) 32 18 11 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (c) 18 4 8 6 Surety bonds (d) 2 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (e) 23 13 10 Construction commitments (f) 82 31 20 31 Other 5 5 Total commitments $ 206 $ 117 $ 49 $ 40 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Chicago agreement 2007 In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $23 million was paid in December 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the City of Chicago Settlement. (c) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that 152 Table of Contents Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), $2 million is included as a liability on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007. (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds rate relief commitments. (f) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds construction commitments. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 1,629 $ 450 $ $ 629 $ 550 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 1,917 227 1,506 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,077 70 128 108 771 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 494 134 120 24 216 FIN 48 liability (b) 2 2 Operating leases 129 19 38 38 34 Fuel purchase agreements (c) 515 174 184 99 58 Other purchase commitments (d) 130 31 37 32 30 Total contractual obligations $ 5,893 $ 1,105 $ 2,013 $ 930 $ 1,843 $ 2 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2007, PECOs FIN 48 liability was $2 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain FIN 48 liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECOs commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 31 $ 31 $ $ $ Surety bonds (b) 25 25 Construction commitments (c) 137 20 84 33 Other 2 2 Total commitments $ 195 $ 78 $ 84 $ 33 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) PECO maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (c) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on PECOs construction commitments. 153 Table of Contents For additional information about: commercial paper, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FIN 48 liabilities, see Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel obligations, see Notes 13 and 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Variable Interest Entities Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. The financing trusts of ComEd, namely ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, and the financing trusts of PECO, namely PECO Trust III, PECO Trust IV and PETT, are not consolidated in Exelons, ComEds and PECOs financial statements pursuant to the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities and FIN 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46 R). Amounts of $0.6 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it sold an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable through November 2010. At December 31, 2007, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, (SFAS No. 140). At December 31, 2006, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $208 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, and a $17 million interest in accounts receivable collected through customer payment agreements (special agreement receivables), which was accounted for as a long term note payable. During 2007, the agreement was amended to eliminate special agreement accounts receivable from the eligible receivables sale pool and certain recourse provisions relating to special agreement 154 Table of Contents receivables. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for the sold receivables. The agreement requires PECO to maintain eligible receivables at least equivalent to the $225 million purchased interest. If eligible receivables are below this level, the agreement requires PECO to hold cash in escrow until the requirement is met. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, PECO met this requirement and no cash deposits were required. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 155 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Corporation The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation has the most exposure to commodity price risk. PECO has transferred most of its commodity price risk to Generation through a PPA that expires at the end of 2010. PECO relies on the PAPUCs purchased gas cost clause to mitigate gas price risk associated with market variability. ComEd has transferred most of its near term commodity price risk to generating companies through the former Illinois auction process and the significant portion of its longer term commodity price risk to Generation through the five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. Furthermore, the Settlement Legislation provides for the pass through of procurement costs by ComEd to its customers. Exelon In 2005, Exelon entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. Including the related mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities increased (reduced) Exelons net income by $87 million, $(24) million and $81 million during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net income or net losses from interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities are reflected in Exelons Consolidated Statements of Operations within income taxes, operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates and other, net. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to consolidated Financial Statements for further information in regards to synthetic fuel activity. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Non trading derivative contracts may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and they are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case the effective portion of those changes are recorded in OCI, and subsequently are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that 156 Table of Contents do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation has hedges in place for 2008 and 2009 and, with the ComEd financial swap contract, also for 2010 into 2013. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 2008, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This economic hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. A portion of Generations hedge may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a 10% reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity would be a decrease of less than $60 million in net income. This sensitivity assumes that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2007 resulted in a pre tax gain of $42 million, which represented a net unrealized mark to market gain of $34 million and realized gain of $8 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $190,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for year ended December 31, 2007 of $6,298 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officer (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance 157 Table of Contents sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total (a) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2006 $ (540 ) Total change in fair value during 2006 of contracts recorded in earnings 41 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 66 Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 146 Effective portion of changes in fair value during 2006 recorded in OCI 789 Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (3 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets at December 31, 2006 499 Total change in fair value during 2007 of contracts recorded in earnings (29 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (106 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI (15 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value during 2007 recorded in OCI (1,310 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (1 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2007 $ (962 ) (a) Includes $456 million of changes during 2007 in the fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd. The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2007 and 2006: December 31, 2007 (a) December 31, 2006 Current assets $ 445 $ 1,408 Noncurrent assets 113 171 Total mark to market energy contract assets 558 1,579 Current liabilities (612 ) (1,003 ) Noncurrent liabilities (908 ) (77 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (1,520 ) (1,080 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (962 ) $ 499 (a) Includes the fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd, with current liabilities including $13 million and noncurrent liabilities including $443 million, all related to Generations five year financial swap contract with ComEd. The fair value balances are eliminated upon consolidation. The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2007 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 158 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, the table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within (in millions) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ (41 ) $ (67 ) $ (9 ) $ $ $ $ (117 ) Prices provided by external sources (132 ) (198 ) (32 ) (2 ) (2 ) (1 ) (367 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods (13 ) (57 ) (103 ) (142 ) (99 ) (42 ) (456 ) Total $ (186 ) $ (322 ) $ (144 ) $ (144 ) $ (101 ) $ (43 ) $ (940 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ (10 ) $ (13 ) $ $ (1 ) $ $ $ (24 ) Prices provided by other external sources 44 (3 ) (5 ) 1 37 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (14 ) (21 ) (35 ) Total $ 20 $ (37 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ $ (22 ) (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. Includes $456 of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations andHedging Activities (a) Interest Rate andOtherHedges Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2006 $ (314 ) $ (4 ) $ (318 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value 476 1 477 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 88 88 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2006 250 (3 ) 247 Effective portion of changes in fair value (789 ) 3 (786 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income (9 ) (9 ) Accumulated OCI derivative gain (loss) at December 31, 2007 $ (548 ) $ $ (548 ) (a) Includes $275 million, net of taxes, of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd. 159 Table of Contents ComEd ComEds energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Derivative contracts may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case changes in fair value are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. With the exception of ComEds financial swap contract with Generation, changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. Since the financial swap contract was deemed prudent by the Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring ComEd of full cost recovery in rates, the change in the fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction (see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the derivative wholesale contracts of less than $1 million was recorded on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet as a current liability. The following detailed presentation of the energy related derivative activities at ComEd is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys CCRO. The following table provides detail on changes in ComEds mark to market net liability or asset balance sheet position from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from accumulated OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in regulatory assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2006 $ Total change in fair value during 2006 of contracts recorded in earnings (8 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 3 Changes in fair value recorded in OCI (6 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2006 $ (11 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 4 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI 3 Changes in fair value recorded in OCI 4 Changes in fair value energy derivative with Generation recorded in regulatory liabilities 456 Total mark to market energy contract net assets at December 31, 2007 $ 456 160 Table of Contents The following table details the balance sheet classification of ComEds mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31,2007 (a) December 31,2006 Current assets (a) $ 13 $ Noncurrent assets (a) 443 Total mark to market energy contract assets 456 Current liabilities (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 456 $ (11 ) (a) Includes the fair value of energy derivative asset with Generation, with current assets including $13 million and noncurrent assets including $443 million, all related to the ComEds five year financial swap contract with Generation. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2007 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of the derivative contracts ComEd holds. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. The following table provides the maturity, by year, of ComEds net assets/liabilities associated with the Generation swap, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities Within Total FairValue 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Prices based on model or other valuation methods $ 13 $ 57 $ 103 $ 142 $ 99 $ 42 $ 456 Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation Generations PPA with ComEd expired at the end of 2006. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren auctions. Beginning in 2007 and as a result of the auctions, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. Although Settlement Legislation passed in Illinois during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions, Generation is expected to participate in the alternative competitive procurement process and will continue to have credit risk in connection with contracts for sale of electricity resulting from the alternative competitive procurement process. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment; therefore, Generations credit risk profile has changed based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. For additional information on the Illinois auction and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation attempts to enter into enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with its counterparties, which reduces Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. Typically, 161 Table of Contents each enabling agreement is for a specific commodity and so, with respect to each individual counterparty, netting is limited to transactions involving that specific commodity product, except where master netting agreements exist with a counterparty that allows for cross product netting. In addition to payment netting language in the enabling agreement, the credit department establishes credit limits and letter of credit requirements for each counterparty, which are defined in each contract. Counterparty credit limits are based on an internal credit review that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. To the extent that a counterpartys credit limit and letter of credit thresholds are exceeded, the counterparty is required to post collateral with Generation as specified in each enabling agreement. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. See the Collateral section below for additional information. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates, accounts receivable exposure, or credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs and Independent System Operators (ISOs), which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2007 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 356 $ 31 $ 325 2 $ 141 Non investment grade 22 1 21 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 9 9 Internally rated non investment grade 21 2 19 Total $ 408 $ 34 $ 374 2 $ 141 Rating as of December 31, 2006 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,005 $ 268 $ 737 1 $ 95 Non investment grade 53 9 44 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 10 1 9 Internally rated non investment grade 4 3 1 Total $ 1,072 $ 281 $ 791 1 $ 95 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2007 Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 355 $ 1 $ $ 356 Non investment grade 22 22 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 3 6 9 Internally rated non investment grade 21 21 Total $ 401 $ 7 $ $ 408 162 Table of Contents Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, neither ComEd nor Ameren is required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation may be required to post collateral. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on contracted clearing prices related to the ComEd and Ameren auctions. Under the terms of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, if ComEd achieves investment grade ratings from Moodys or S&P, and then is later downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from ComEd; conversely, should Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from Generation. Should both ComEd rise above investment grade and then subsequently be downgraded below investment grade and Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be required from either party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. Under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation. At December 31, 2007, there was no collateral required to be posted by Generation to ComEd related to the five year financial swap contract. As of December 31, 2007, Generation had $272 million of collateral deposit payments being held by counterparties and Generation was holding $1 million of collateral deposits received from counterparties. RTOs and ISOs. Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in, all or some of, the following established, real time energy markets that are administered by: PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions 163 Table of Contents be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generation, ComEd and PECOs financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will continue to monitor the impact of the power prices on its customer payment practices as it relates to its provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd will continue to monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. The Settlement Legislation (discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 2.1% of its electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 8.3% of its retail electric and gas revenues. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets included a $553 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2007. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $939 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. 164 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2007, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. As of December 31, 2007, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in $4 million, $2 million, $1 million and $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs, respectively, pre tax earnings. During 2006, ComEd settled its interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million for a cash payment of approximately $1 million. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2007, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the values of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $415 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. Exelon and Generation maintain trust assets associated with defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. Certain investments within the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and pension and other postretirement benefit plans hold underlying securities in subprime mortgage related assets. The fair value of these subprime related investments have declined as a result of recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets. Exelon expects that market conditions will continue to evolve, and that the fair value of Exelons investments, including those that are subprime related, may frequently change. Exelon performed an assessment of its investments and believes that declines in the fair value of its nuclear decommissioning trust funds and pension and other postretirement benefit plans due to its relatively small exposure to subprime assets will not be significant. 165 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility that Generation currently utilizes to support is commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 166 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 167 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2007 compared 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had access to an unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had borrowed $370 million from its unsecured credit facility since its access to the commercial paper market is limited due to its current credit ratings. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, ComEds working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd intends to refinance maturing long term debt in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd has the capacity to issue approximately $2.8 billion of first mortgage bonds as a result of replacing its secured credit facility, which contained a restriction on a portion of such bond issuances, with an unsecured credit facility, which does not contain that restriction. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2006 or 2007. During 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006, ComEd experienced a decrease in operating cash flows primarily due to a change in its payment terms with energy suppliers resulting from downgraded credit ratings and due to under recovery of energy costs, which have been recognized as a regulatory asset. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which ComEd is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 or 168 Table of Contents additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 169 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to an unsecured revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 170 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 171 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Exelon General Exelon is a utility services holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following operating segments: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information. Exelons corporate operations, some of which are performed through its business services subsidiary, BSC, provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $2,736 million in 2007 as compared to $1,592 million in 2006 and diluted earnings per average common share were $4.05 for 2007 as compared to $2.35 for 2006. The increase in net income was primarily due to the following: the impact of a $776 million impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher average margins on Generations wholesale market sales primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006; increased transmission revenues at ComEd; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased delivery volume, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line); gains realized on decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy; favorable income tax benefit associated with Exelons method of capitalizing overhead costs; and the impact of a charge in 2006 associated with the termination of the proposed merger with PSEG. 71 Table of Contents The factors driving the overall increase in net income were partially offset by the following: decreased energy margins (operating revenues net of purchased power expense) at ComEd due to the end of the regulatory transition period; increased mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; the impact of the Illinois Settlement Legislation described below; increased nuclear decommissioning related activity; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; increased amortization expense, primarily related to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; a charge associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP (Tenaska); and the impact of a benefit in 2006 of approximately $288 million to recover certain costs allowed by the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) rate orders. Financing Activities. During 2007, Exelon met its capital resource requirements primarily with internally generated cash as well as funds from external sources, including the capital markets, and through bank borrowings. During 2007, Generation, ComEd and PECO issued $746 million, $725 million and $175 million, respectively, of long term debt. In addition, during 2007, ComEd borrowed $370 million under its credit facilities and repaid all outstanding commercial paper. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Registrants debt and credit facilities. On September 4, 2007, Exelon entered into agreements with two investment banks to repurchase a total of $1.25 billion of Exelons common shares under an accelerated share repurchase arrangement. In September 2007, Exelon received 15.1 million shares in accordance with the accelerated share repurchase agreements, which were recorded as treasury stock, at cost, for $1.17 billion. On December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500 million of Exelons outstanding common stock. This new program is in addition to the $1.25 billion share repurchase executed in September 2007. See Note 17 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. On December 19, 2007, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on Exelons common stock. This dividend declaration was made by the Exelon Board of Directors under a value return policy that established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. The Registrants performed an assessment during the fourth quarter of 2007 to determine the impact, if any, of recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets. The Registrants believe that the fair value of their investments, their ability to access liquidity in the market at reasonable rates, their ability to dispose of assets or liabilities as needed to meet financial obligations, and their counterparties creditworthiness will not be significantly affected by the subprime credit crisis. Regulatory and Environmental Developments. The following significant regulatory and environmental developments occurred during 2007. See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Illinois Settlement Legislation and Related Proceedings In July 2007, ComEd and Generation were party to an agreement (Settlement) that concluded discussions of measures to address 72 Table of Contents concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois since the end of the rate freeze transition period on December 31, 2006. The Settlement did not include rate freeze, generation tax or other legislation that would be harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. Legislation implementing the settlement (Settlement Legislation) was signed into law in August 2007 by the Governor of Illinois. Under the Settlement Legislation, Illinois electric utilities, their affiliates, and generators of electricity in Illinois will make voluntary contributions of approximately $1 billion over a period of four years to programs that will provide rate relief to Illinois electricity customers and partial funding for the IPA. Generation and ComEd committed to contributing an aggregate of over $800 million to rate relief programs and funding for the IPA. ComEd continues to execute upon its $64 million rate relief package announced earlier in 2007 whereby contributions to rate relief programs of approximately $41 million were made in 2007. Generation will contribute an aggregate of $747 million, of which $435 million will be available to pay ComEd for rate relief programs for ComEd customers, and $307.5 million will be available for rate relief programs for customers of other Illinois utilities and $4.5 million will be available for partial funding of the IPA. ComEd, Generation, and the Attorney General of the State of Illinois (Illinois Attorney General) also entered into a release and settlement agreement releasing and dismissing with prejudice all litigation, claims and regulatory proceedings and appeals related to the procurement of power, including ICC and FERC proceedings. Additionally, in the event that legislation is enacted prior to August 1, 2011 that would freeze or reduce electric rates or impose a generation tax on any party to the Settlement, the Settlement provides for the contributors to the rate relief funds to terminate their funding commitments and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief. In addition to creating the IPA, the Settlement Legislation established a new competitive process that Illinois utilities will be required to use for the procurement of electricity supply resources and for the implementation of defined levels of cost effective renewable energy resources. The IPA will participate in the design of electricity supply portfolios for ComEd and will administer the new competitive process to procure the electricity supply resources and renewable energy resources identified in the supply portfolio plans, all under the oversight of the ICC. This process will take place for all future delivery periods with the exception of the delivery period starting in June 2008 in which a ComEd developed plan approved by the ICC would be administered. In October 2007, ComEd filed a petition with the ICC seeking approval of an initial procurement plan. The procurement plan and the spot market purchases discussed below will be used to secure power and other ancillary services for retail electric customers for the period June 2008 through May 2009. An ALJ issued a Proposed Order on December 11, 2007, approving virtually every aspect of the proposal. On December 19, 2007, the ICC approved the Proposed Order. In addition to the procurement plan, ComEd will purchase energy on the spot market to meet the needs of its customers. Additionally, to fulfill a requirement of the Settlement, ComEd and Generation entered into a five year financial swap contract whereby ComEd will pay fixed prices and Generation will pay a market price for a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirement. This contract effectively hedges a significant portion of ComEds spot market purchases. The financial swap contract became effective upon the enactment of the Settlement Legislation. The Settlement Legislation deems this arrangement prudent and thereby ensures that ComEd will be entitled to receive full recovery of its costs in its rates. The Settlement Legislation further requires that electric utilities use cost effective energy efficiency and demand response resources to meet incremental annual goals. In November 2007, ComEd filed its initial Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Plan with the ICC and expects an ICC order to be issued on the filing during the first quarter of 2008. This plan begins on June 1, 2008 and is designed to meet the Settlement Legislations energy efficiency 73 Table of Contents and demand response goals for an initial three year period, including reductions in delivered energy and in ComEds supply customers peak demand. If targets are met, ComEd customers would reduce their electricity consumption by a cumulative amount of approximately 1.2 million MWh at the end of the three years. Savings on customers bills is expected to pay for the cost of implementing the programs and produce additional net savings of more than $155 million over the lifetime of the programs. Once implemented, the programs would place ComEd among the top three utilities in the nation in terms of annual electricity savings achieved through energy efficiency. The Settlement Legislation also declared that the 400 kW and above customer classes of ComEd are competitive. On October 11, 2007, the ICC granted a request made by ComEd by declaring that customer classes with demands of 100 kW or greater but less than 400 kW are competitive, effective on November 11, 2007. Consequently, after the expiration of a three year transitional period, ComEd will have a POLR obligation only for those customers with demand of less than 100 kW who have not chosen a competitive electric generation supplier. Other provisions in the Settlement Legislation extend the ability of utilities to engage in divestiture and other restructuring transactions, after only having to make an informational filing at the ICC, and ensure that until at least June 30, 2022, the state will not prohibit an electric utility from maintaining its membership in a FERC approved regional transmission organization chosen by the utility. Illinois Procurement Proceedings On March 28, 2007 and March 30, 2007, class action suits were filed in Illinois state court against ComEd and Generation as well as the other suppliers in the Illinois procurement auction that occurred in September 2006. The suits claimed that the suppliers manipulated the auction and that the resulting wholesale prices were unlawfully high. On December 21, 2007, a United States District Court granted the defendants motions to dismiss both cases and the time to appeal that order has expired. Delivery Service Rate Case On October 17, 2007, ComEd filed a request with the ICC seeking approval to increase its delivery service rates to reflect its continued investment in delivery service assets since rates were last determined. If approved by the ICC, the total proposed increase of approximately $360 million in the net annual revenue requirement, which was based on a 2006 test year, would increase an average residential customer bill by approximately 7.7%. ICC proceedings relating to the proposed delivery service rates will take place over a period of up to eleven months. Transmission Rate Case On March 1, 2007, ComEd filed a request with FERC, seeking approval to increase the rate ComEd receives for transmission services. ComEd also requested incentive rate treatment for certain transmission projects. On June 5, 2007, FERC issued an order that conditionally approved ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate effective as of May 1, 2007, but subject to refund, hearing procedures and conditions. The order denied ComEds request for incentive rate treatment on investment in certain transmission projects and the inclusion of construction work in progress in rate base. On October 5, 2007, ComEd made a filing with FERC seeking approval of a settlement agreement reached on the case that had been announced by the settlement judge to FERC in September 2007. The settlement agreement is a comprehensive resolution of all issues in the proceeding, other than ComEds pending request for rehearing on incentive returns on new investment. The settlement agreement establishes the treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis and results in a first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement increase of approximately $93 million, or a $24 million reduction from the revenue requirement conditionally approved by FERC on June 5, 2007. FERC approved the settlement on January 16, 2008. Management believes that appropriate reserves 74 Table of Contents have been established for transmission revenues that will be refunded in accordance with the final settlement agreement. On January 18, 2008, FERC issued an order on rehearing that allowed a 1.5% adder to return on equity for ComEds largest transmission project and authorized the inclusion of 100% of construction work in progress in rate base for that project but rejected incentive treatment for any other project ComEd has pending. City of Chicago Settlement On December 21, 2007, ComEd entered into a settlement agreement with the City of Chicago (City) regarding a wide range of issues including components of its franchise agreement with the City and other matters. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, ComEd will make payments totaling $55 million to the City through 2012 so long as the City meets specified conditions contained in the settlement agreement. The first payment of $23 million was made in December 2007. The City has agreed not to challenge ComEds position in certain regulatory proceedings during the term of the Settlement Agreement, including, among others, ComEds delivery service rate case, the recent transmission rate case, and ComEds proposed revenue requirements in future rate cases when increases in the revenue requirement do not exceed specified increases in the Consumer Price Index. The City further agreed to allow ComEd to cancel various projects previously required under the franchise agreement with the City and to defer completion of other required projects. The settlement agreement also settles other disputes between ComEd and the City, including dismissing the Citys appeal of ComEds 2005 delivery rate case. ComEd and the City also agreed to establish a panel of ComEd and City representatives to evaluate opportunities to improve service reliability in the City. PECO AEPS Filing On March 19, 2007, PECO filed a request with PAPUC for approval to acquire and bank up to 450,000 non solar Tier I Alternative Energy Credits (equivalent to up to 240 MWs of electricity generated by wind) annually for a five year term in order to prepare for 2011, the first year of PECOs required compliance under the AEPS Act following the completion of its transition period. On July 16, 2007, the Pennsylvania legislature modified the previously proposed AEPS Act in HB 1203. The modification did not affect PECOs request for acquiring and banking Alternative Energy Credits or the proposed deferral of related costs. The PAPUC approved PECOs filing on December 20, 2007. Using an independent Request for Proposal (RFP) monitor, PECO will conduct an RFP process for alternative energy producers to submit bids to sell credits beginning in March 2008. Outlook for 2008 and Beyond. Exelons future financial results will be affected by a number of factors, including the following: The Settlement Legislation is expected to provide ComEd with greater stability and certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to its customers with less risk that rate freeze or other harmful legislation will be pursued in the near term. The Settlement Legislation established a new competitive procurement model to be developed by the IPA, by which ComEd will procure its energy supply. ComEd has stabilized a portion of its costs of procurement pursuant to the five year financial swap contract with Generation. ComEd will be allowed to fully recover the costs of procuring energy, including the impacts of the financial swap contract, in its rates. In the event that legislation is enacted in the Illinois General Assembly prior to August 1, 2011 that freezes or reduces electric rates or imposes a generation tax, the Settlement Legislation permits ComEd and Generation, as contributors to certain rate relief programs, to terminate their funding commitments to such programs and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief. PECO was subject to electric rate caps on its transmission and distribution rates through December 31, 2006 and is subject to caps on its generation rates through December 31, 2010. PECOs transmission and distribution rates will continue in effect until PECO files a rate case 75 Table of Contents or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. There are no current proceedings to do so. PECO is or will be involved in proceedings involving annual changes in its electric and gas universal service fund cost charges, its electric CTC/intangible transition charge reconciliation mechanism, its purchased gas cost rate, and its every five year nuclear decommissioning cost adjustment clause mechanism, all of which relate to PECOs recovery of the applicable costs. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2008 and 2009. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. Generation procures nuclear fuel assemblies through long term contracts for uranium concentrates and through long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Generation procures coal primarily through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with these commodity price exposures. The PPA between Generation and PECO expires at the end of 2010. Current market prices for electricity have increased significantly over the past few years due to the rise in natural gas and other fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates are below current wholesale energy market prices and Generations margins on sales in excess of PECOs requirements have improved historically. Generations ability to achieve those margins following the expiration of the PPA will partially depend on future wholesale market prices. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs to either further limit the GHG emissions from its operations or in procuring emission allowance credits. However, Exelon may benefit from stricter emission standards due to its significant nuclear capacity, which is not anticipated to be adversely affected by the proposed emission standards. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in the case of Massachusetts v. U. S. EPA holding that carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions are pollutants subject to regulation under the new motor vehicle provisions of the Clean Air Act. The case was remanded to the EPA for further rulemaking to determine whether GHG emissions may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, or in the alternative provide a reasonable explanation why GHG emissions should not be regulated. Possible outcomes from this decision include regulation of GHG emissions from manufacturing plants, including electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, under a new EPA rule, and Federal or state legislation. Exelon anticipates that it will be subject to the ongoing pressures of rising operating expenses due to increases in costs, such as medical benefits and rising payroll costs due to inflation. 76 Table of Contents Also, Exelon will continue to incur significant capital costs associated with its commitment to produce and deliver energy reliably to its customers. Increasing capital costs may include the price of uranium, which fuels the nuclear facilities, and continued capital investment in Exelons aging distribution infrastructure and generating facilities. Exelon is determined to operate its businesses responsibly and to appropriately manage its operating and capital costs while serving its customers and producing value for its shareholders. Generation pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize shareholder value, taking earnings, cash flow and financial risk into account. On September 29, 2006, Generation notified the NRC that Generation will begin the application process for a combined COL that would allow for the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas. The filing of the letter with the NRC launched a process that preserves for Exelon and Generation the option to develop a new nuclear plant in Texas without immediately committing to the full project. In order to continue preserving and assessing this option, Exelon and Generation have approved expenditures on the project of up to $100 million, which includes fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments and other costs for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. The development phase of the project is expected to extend into 2009, and funding beyond the $100 million commitment would be subject to extensive analysis. Generation has not made a decision to build a new nuclear plant at this time. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision to build is made are a workable solution to spent nuclear fuel disposal, broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant and assurances that a new plant using the new technology can be financially successful, which would entail economic analysis that would incorporate assessing construction and financing costs, production and other potential tax credits, and other key economic factors. Generation expects to submit the COL application to the NRC in 2008. On December 11, 2007, Generation announced that it will seek to accelerate the decommissioning of its Zion Station in Illinois more than a decade earlier than originally planned. Generation has contracted with EnergySolutions, Inc. to dismantle the nuclear plant, which closed in 1998. Completion of the arrangement is subject to the satisfaction of a number of closing conditions, including the receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. Additionally, the NRC must approve the arrangement, and this decision is not expected before the second half of 2008. Upon approval, the Zion Stations licenses and decommissioning funds would be transferred to EnergySolutions, Inc. During 2006, FERC issued its order approving PJMs settlement proposal related to its RPM to provide for a forward capacity auction using a demand curve and locational deliverability zones for capacity phased in over a several year period. FERCs adoption of the settlement proposal has had a favorable impact for owners of generation facilities, particularly for facilities located in constrained zones. PJMs RPM auctions took place in April 2007, July 2007, October 2007 and January 2008 and established prices for the period from June 1, 2007 through May 31, 2011. Subsequent auctions will take place 36 months ahead of the scheduled delivery year. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its opinion in a challenge to the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. By its action, the court invalidated compliance measures that the utility industry supported because they were cost effective and provided existing plants with needed flexibility in selecting the compliance option appropriate to its location and operations. The courts opinion has created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final compliance requirements. Several industry parties to the litigation sought review by the entire U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which was denied on July 5, 2007. On November 2, 2007, the industry parties filed a petition seeking review by the U.S. Supreme Court. The respondent environmental and state parties have until March 1, 2008 to respond to the petition. On July 9, 2007, the EPA formally suspended the Phase II rule due to the uncertainty about the specific 77 Table of Contents compliance requirements created by the Courts remand of significant provisions of the rule. Until the EPA finalizes the rule on remand (which could take several years), the state permitting agencies will continue the current practice of applying their best professional judgment to address impingement and entrainment requirements at plant cooling water intake structures. Due to this uncertainty, Generation cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the Phase II rule requirements will have on the operation of its generating facilities and its future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If the final rule, or interim state requirements under best professional judgment, has performance standards that require the reduction of cooling water intake flow at the plants consistent with closed loop cooling systems, then the impact on the operation of the facilities and Exelons and Generations future results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be material. On May 10, 2007, after completion of a two year rule making process, the PAPUC adopted final default service regulations, an accompanying policy statement, and a price mitigation policy statement. The regulations allow for competitive procurement by distribution companies through auctions or Requests for Proposals, with full cost recovery and no retrospective prudence review. According to the policy statement, the PAPUC expects companies to procure power, on a customer class basis, using contracts of varying expiration dates, and prefers contracts with a duration of one year or less, except for contracts for compliance with the AEPS Act. The PAPUC also expects companies to reconcile costs and adjust rates at least quarterly for most customers, but hourly or monthly for larger energy users. The PAPUC believes this combination will stimulate competition, send market price signals and avoid price spikes following long periods of fixed, capped rates. The PAPUC also ordered the elimination of (1) declining block rates, while allowing rates to be phased out if the resulting rate increase is greater than 25%; and (2) demand charges for large customers, while entertaining requests to retain those charges on a case by case basis. Electric distribution companies, such as PECO, will be required to make their implementation filings a minimum of 12 months prior to the end of the generation rate cap period, which for PECO, expires December 31, 2010. The final default service regulations became effective on September 15, 2007. In Pennsylvania and other states where rate cap transition periods have ended or are approaching expiration, there is growing pressure from state regulators and elected officials to mitigate the potential impact of electricity price increases on retail customers. Such transition periods have ended for six Pennsylvania electric distribution companies and, in some instances, post transition electricity price increases occurred. In response to concerns about post transition rate increases in Pennsylvania, several measures have been either proposed or contemplated by various stakeholders. Certain legislators, for example, have suggested an extension of rate caps. Other measures previously proposed by the Pennsylvania Governor as part of his Energy Independence Strategy included, among other things: a phase in of increased generation rates after expiration of rate caps; installation of smart metering technology; permission for electric distribution companies to enter into long term contracts with large industrial customers; creation of a fee on electric consumption that would help fund an $850 million Energy Independence Fund designed to spur the development of a biofuels industry in the state as well as to promote the advancement of energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives; a requirement for electric distribution companies, such as PECO, to procure electricity for their default service customers after the end of their electric restructuring period (post 2010 for PECO), through a least cost portfolio approach, with preferences for conservation and renewable power and permit distribution companies to enter into long term procurement contracts to enable the construction of new generation. As of February 7, 2008, no portion of the Governors environmental agenda has been enacted into law. PECO cannot predict what measures, if any, will be introduced in the state legislature or become law in Pennsylvania, nor the disposition of measures in the Pennsylvania Governors Energy Independence Strategy. However, any legislation that requires PECO to sell electricity, 78 Table of Contents beginning in 2011, at prices that are below PECOs cost to procure and deliver electricity to customers or other legislation that would freeze rates or extend the rate cap beyond 2010 could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. On October 15, 2007, Generation entered into an agreement (Termination Agreement) with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Dominion Resources Inc., to terminate the Power Purchase Agreement dated as of April 17, 1996 (as amended, the PPA) between State Line and Generation relating to the State Line generating facility in Hammond, Indiana. Under the PPA, Generation controlled 515 MW of electric energy and capacity from the State Line facility. FERC approved the Termination Agreement on October 18, 2007. Further, the conditions to the effectiveness of the Termination Agreement were subsequently satisfied and Generation received a net cash payment from State Line of approximately $228 million, after adjustments, in consideration for the termination of the PPA and for the purchase of coal inventories on hand (and in transit) and other assets. As a result of the Termination Agreement, a negative net income impact to Generation of approximately $30 million to $35 million (after tax) per year is expected beginning in 2008 through the end of the original contract term in 2012. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Further discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies on a unit by unit basis to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at a minimum of every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation 79 Table of Contents factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, low level radioactive waste disposal and other costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternatives and timing scenarios on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% (high cost scenario) or minus 15% (low cost scenario) over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a low level radioactive waste landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a 20 year delay) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposal. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2007 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 313 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 113 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 147 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 226 Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a periodic basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or estimated amount of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill which relates to the acquisition of ComEd under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for 80 Table of Contents impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of the reporting unit. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In the assessment, Exelon and ComEd estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model with scenarios reflecting managements plans and a resulting range of operating results and cash flows. The model includes an estimate of ComEds terminal value based on these expected cash flows and on an earnings multiple approach, which reflects the estimated value of comparable utility companies. Other significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit include ComEds capital structure, interest rates, utility sector market performance, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors. Changes in these variables or in the assessment of how they interrelate could produce a different impairment result, which could be material. For example, a hypothetical decrease of approximately 13% in expected discounted cash flows in ComEds 2007 annual assessment would have resulted in ComEd and Exelon failing step 1 of the impairment test. ComEd and Exelon would be required to perform step 2 of the impairment test to determine the amount of an impairment, if any. An impairment would require Exelon and ComEd to reduce both goodwill and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Long Lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment would require the affected registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. Investments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO had investments, including investments held in nuclear decommissioning trust funds, recorded as of December 31, 2007. Beginning in 2006, and in connection with the issuance of FASB Staff Position FAS 115 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. Generation considers all nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments in an unrealized loss position to be other than temporarily impaired. Since the NRC sets limitations on Exelons and Generations ability to direct the management of the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments, Exelon and Generation do not have the ability to hold investments with unrealized losses through a recovery period and, accordingly, unrealized holding losses are recognized immediately, which are included in other, net in Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their 81 Table of Contents estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of property, plant and equipment recorded and the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. The estimated service lives of the nuclear fuel generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations inability to receive additional license renewals could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel and hydroelectric generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. ComEd reviews its estimated service lives when circumstances, such as technological changes, warrant such a review. ComEds last depreciation study was performed in 2002. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. The impact of the new rates was not material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for essentially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees, except for those employees of Generations wholly owned subsidiary, AmerGen, who participate in the separate AmerGen sponsored defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement welfare benefit plan. See Note 15 Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under these plans involve various factors, including numerous assumptions and accounting elections. When determining the various assumptions that are required, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The benefit costs are affected by, among other things, the actual rate of return on plan assets, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment crediting rate, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs and the level of benefits provided to employees and retirees. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 8.75% for 2007 and 9.00% for 2006 and 2005. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement 82 Table of Contents benefit costs was 7.85%, 8.15% and 8.30% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The EROA is based on current and forecasted asset allocations as described in Note 15 Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A change in the strategy of the asset allocations could significantly impact the EROA and related costs. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the market related value (MRV) of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments that are to be made during the year. SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (SFAS No. 106) allow the MRV of plan assets to be either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. Exelon uses a calculated value when determining the MRV of the pension plan assets that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. This calculated value has the effect of stabilizing variability in assets to which Exelon applies that expected return. Exelon uses fair value when determining the MRV of the other postretirement benefit plan assets and the AmerGen pension plan assets. The discount rate for determining the pension benefit obligations was 6.20%, 5.90% and 5.60% at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The discount rate for determining the other postretirement benefit obligations was 6.20%, 5.85% and 5.60% at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of more than 400 Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end will be used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use a discount rate and EROA of 6.20% and 8.75%, respectively, for estimating its 2008 pension costs. Additionally, Exelon will use a discount rate and expected return on plan assets of 6.20% and 7.80%, respectively, for estimating its 2008 other postretirement benefit costs. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onPension Liability atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on2007Pension Cost Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on 2007PostretirementBenefit Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 648 $ 57 $ 207 $ 26 Decrease rate of EROA by 0.5% 47 7 83 Table of Contents Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens postretirement benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2007 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2007 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on2007Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase assumed health care cost trend by 1% $ 422 $ 48 Decrease assumed health care cost trend by 1% (349 ) (39 ) Extending the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2007 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2007 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2007 Impact on2007Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years $ 139 $ 18 The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. The impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement as allowed by SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs, transition obligations, and certain of its actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs over participants average remaining service period related to eligibility age, and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of defined pension plan participants was 13.0 years, 13.5 years and 13.8 years for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 6.9 years, 7.3 years and 7.5 years for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.7 years, 10.3 years and 10.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues received from customers to fund expected costs that have not yet been incurred or gains that are required to be returned to customers. Use of SFAS No. 71 is 84 Table of Contents applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their businesses, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2007, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $2.9 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that ComEd could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Similarly, at December 31, 2007, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $3.0 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities had it been determined that PECO could no longer maintain regulatory assets and liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a (before taxes) charge against other comprehensive income of up to $1.2 billion and $74 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The resolution of the above items and the impact on ComEds capital structure could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 4, 8 and 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that will ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of the appropriate regulatory process. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies, known circumstances specific to a particular matter, discussions held with the applicable regulatory body, and other factors. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual events, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has a five year financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013. PECO has entered into derivative gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. ComEd and PECO do not enter into 85 Table of Contents derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133) and related interpretations. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under SFAS No. 133 requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the liquidity of its market as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133 continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets and changes in interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133 could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium do not meet the definition of a derivative under SFAS No. 133 since they do not provide for net settlement and the uranium markets are not sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the cost or value of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period. For ComEds financial swap contract with Generation, ComEd records changes in the fair value of the swap as well as an offsetting regulatory asset or liability. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases or normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Normal purchases and sales are contracts where physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time, and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, the majority of these transactions have been designated as normal purchases or normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but on an accrual basis of accounting. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings. 86 Table of Contents Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings. As a result of the Settlement reached in 2007, ComEd and Generation entered into a financial swap contract that has been designated as a cash flow hedge by Generation but has not been designated for hedge accounting by ComEd. The effect of the contract will be to cause Generation to pay market prices and ComEd to pay fixed prices for a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirement into 2013. In Exelons consolidated financial statements, all financial statement effects of the swap recorded by Generation and ComEd are eliminated. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Generation uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available or external broker quotes in order to determine the fair value of energy contracts. When external prices are not available, Generation uses internal models to determine the fair value. These internal models include assumptions of the future prices of energy based on the specific market in which the energy is being purchased, using externally available forward market pricing curves for all periods possible under the pricing model. For options contracts, Generation uses the Black model, a standard industry valuation model, to determine the fair value of energy derivative contracts that are marked to market. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Normal Operations and Hedging Activities for further information regarding sensitivity analysis related to market price exposure. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. To determine the fair value of interest rate swap agreements, the Registrants primarily use available market pricing curves. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Beginning January 1, 2007, the Registrants began accounting for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement in accordance with FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Prior to January 1, 2007, the Registrants estimated their uncertain income tax obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS No. 109), SFAS No. 5, and Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements a replacement of FASB Concepts Statement No. 3 (incorporating 87 Table of Contents an amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2) (CON 6). The Registrants recognize accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense or interest income in other income and deductions on their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Registrants also have non income tax obligations related to real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters that are outside the scope of FIN 48 and accounted for under SFAS No. 5 and CON 6. Accounting for tax positions requires judgments, including estimating reserves for potential uncertainties. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with FIN 48, SFAS No. 5, SFAS No. 109 and CON 6 as applicable, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on the liabilities and expenses in their financial statements. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Exelon and Generation have a reserve for asbestos related bodily injury claims for open claims presented to Generation as of December 31, 2007 and for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims anticipated to arise through 2030 based on actuarial assumptions and analysis. Exelons 88 Table of Contents and Generations management each determined that it was not reasonable to estimate future asbestos related personal injury claims beyond 2030 based on the historical claims data available and the significant amount of judgment required to estimate this liability. In calculating the future losses, management made various assumptions, including but not limited to, the overall number of future claims estimated through the use of actuarial models, Exelons estimated portion of future settlements and obligations, the distribution of exposure sites, the anticipated future mix of diseases that relate to asbestos exposure and the anticipated levels of awards made to plaintiffs. Exelon obtains periodic updates of the estimate of future losses. The amounts recorded by Generation for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims are based upon historical experience and actuarial studies. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding asbestos related litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than projected. These estimates for asbestos related bodily injury cases and settlements are difficult to predict and may be influenced by many factors. Accordingly, these matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on Exelons or Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Generations revenue from service agreements is dependent upon when the services are rendered. Service agreements representing a cost recovery arrangement are presented gross within revenues for the amounts due from the party receiving the service, and the costs associated with providing the service are presented within operating and maintenance expenses. The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of probable losses on the accounts receivable balances. The allowance is based on known troubled accounts, historical experience and other currently available evidence. For ComEd and PECO, customer accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. Customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory guidelines. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories and are prohibited from terminating electric service to certain residential customers due to nonpayment during certain months of the year. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in 89 Table of Contents prices as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would need to make adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts for the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. ComEds and PECOs allowance for uncollectible accounts expense increased by $25 million and $13 million, respectively, in 2007 as compared to 2006. These increases resulted from a change in collectibility assumptions in response to changes in the customer payment patterns, changes in customer prices, changes in termination practices and certain changes in business and economic conditions. To the extent that actual collectibility differs from managements estimates by 5%, the after tax impact would be higher or lower by an estimated $4 million, $2 million, $2 million and less than $1 million for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, respectively. See ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the rollforwards of allowance for uncollectible accounts. Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Results of Operations Exelon 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 18,916 $ 15,655 $ 3,261 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 7,642 5,232 (2,410 ) Operating and maintenance 4,289 3,868 (421 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 1,520 1,487 (33 ) Taxes other than income 797 771 (26 ) Total operating expenses 14,248 12,134 (2,114 ) Operating income 4,668 3,521 1,147 Other income and deductions Interest expense (647 ) (616 ) (31 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (203 ) (264 ) 61 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (106 ) (111 ) 5 Other, net 460 266 194 Total other income and deductions (496 ) (725 ) 229 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 4,172 2,796 1,376 Income taxes 1,446 1,206 (240 ) Income from continuing operations 2,726 1,590 1,136 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 10 2 8 Net income $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.05 $ 2.35 $ 1.70 90 Table of Contents Net Income. Exelons net income for 2007 increased due to the impact of a $776 million impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher average margins on Generations wholesale market sales primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006; increased nuclear output at Generation reflecting fewer outage days; increased transmission revenues at ComEd; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased delivery volume, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; decreased nuclear refueling outage costs; incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; gains realized on decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy; favorable income tax benefit associated with Exelons method of capitalizing overhead costs; increased earnings associated with synthetic fuel producing facilities; the reduction in the reserve related to the successful PURTA tax appeal at PECO; and a charge in 2006 associated with the termination of the proposed merger with PSEG. These increases were partially offset by decreased energy margins at ComEd due to the end of the regulatory transition period; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; the impact of the Settlement; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the AmerGen nuclear plants; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; increased amortization expense related to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO; costs associated with the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas; benefits in 2006 of approximately $288 million to recover certain costs by the ICC rate orders; and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation resulting from higher volumes of generation sold to the market at higher prices as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; the impact of rate changes and mix at ComEd due to the end of the rate freeze and the implementation of market based rates for electricity; increased transmission revenues at ComEd resulting from the 2007 transmission rate case; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; higher delivery volumes, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; and authorized electric generation rate increases under the 1998 restructuring agreement at PECO. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the Settlement; more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; costs associated with ComEds settlement agreement with the City of Chicago; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense increased due to higher market energy prices; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to a contract with Tenaska; higher prices for electricity purchased by ComEd; and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply for 2007 and 2006. The increases in purchase power and fuel expense were partially offset by a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under its supplier forward contracts from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. 91 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the AmerGen nuclear plants; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; new nuclear site development costs for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas; increased tax consulting fees; and benefits of $201 million recorded at ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate orders. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006; incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; and a charge recorded in 2006 of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the now terminated proposed merger with PSEG. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2006, ComEd recorded a $776 million impairment charge associated with its goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service across Exelon. These increases were partially offset by lower amortization related to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to an increase in utility taxes resulting from higher utility revenues at PECO and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in the reserve related to the successful PURTA tax appeal at PECO. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects interest income related to the favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; a gain related to the sale of investments by Generation; income and gains associated with nuclear decommissioning trust funds, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy; benefits of $87 million recorded by ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate order; and earnings associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 34.7% for 2007 compared to 43.1% for 2006. The 2007 rate decreased, as compared with 2006, primarily due to ComEds non deductible goodwill impairment charge in 2006 which increased the rate by 9.7% and a decrease of state tax expense in 2007 of 1.5% due to a tax restructuring to allow utilization of separate company losses for state income tax purposes, partially offset by a reduction in synthetic fuel credits of 1.7% in 2007 caused by an increase in the phase out due to higher oil prices, and other changes amounting to 1.1%. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates and discussion on the investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe Energies, Inc (Sithe). In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Exelon Enterprises Company, LLC (Enterprises). Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. 92 Table of Contents Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2007 and 2006 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 2,025 $ 1,403 $ 622 ComEd 165 (112 ) 277 PECO 507 441 66 Other (a) 29 (142 ) 171 Total $ 2,726 $ 1,590 $ 1,136 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 2,029 $ 1,407 $ 622 ComEd 165 (112 ) 277 PECO 507 441 66 Other (a) 35 (144 ) 179 Total $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 93 Table of Contents Results of Operations Generation 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 1,606 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 4,451 3,978 (473 ) Operating and maintenance 2,454 2,305 (149 ) Depreciation and amortization 267 279 12 Taxes other than income 185 185 Total operating expenses 7,357 6,747 (610 ) Operating income 3,392 2,396 996 Other income and deductions Interest expense (161 ) (159 ) (2 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates 1 (9 ) 10 Other, net 155 41 114 Total other income and deductions (5 ) (127 ) 122 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,387 2,269 1,118 Income taxes 1,362 866 (496 ) Income from continuing operations 2,025 1,403 622 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 4 4 Income from discontinued operations 4 4 Net income $ 2,029 $ 1,407 $ 622 Net Income. Generations net income for 2007 compared to 2006 increased primarily due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, more than offsetting inflationary and other cost pressures, a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in the nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the AmerGen nuclear plants and costs associated with the new nuclear plant COL application. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased due to higher average margins primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006, the contractual increase in the prices associated with Generations PPA with PECO, the termination of the State Line PPA and a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007, partially offset by amounts incurred in conjunction with the Settlement, net mark to market losses on derivative activities and the execution of the Georgia Power PPA. In addition to these impacts, Generations net income for 2007 included (all after tax) gains of $38 million related to changes in Generations investment strategy with the decommissioning trust fund investments, a gain on the sale of investments of $11 million and earnings of $4 million associated with the settlement of a tax matter related to Generations previous investment in Sithe. Operating Revenues. For 2007 and 2006, Generations revenues were as follows: Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,537 $ 4,674 $ (1,137 ) (24.3 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 6,834 3,640 3,194 87.7 % Total energy sales revenue 10,371 8,314 2,057 24.7 % Retail gas sales 449 540 (91 ) (16.9 )% Trading portfolio 43 14 29 207.1 % Other revenue (a) (114 ) 275 (389 ) (141.4 )% Total revenue $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 1,606 17.6 % (a) Includes amounts incurred for the Settlement, income associated with the termination of the State Line PPA, revenues relating to fossil fuel sales and operating service agreements, and decommissioning revenue from PECO during 2007. Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales and operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO during 2006. 94 Table of Contents Sales (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 64,406 119,354 (54,948 ) (46.0 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 125,244 71,326 53,918 75.6 % Total sales 189,650 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% Trading volumes of 20,323 GWhs and 31,692 GWhs for 2007 and 2006, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. The changes in Generations electric sales to affiliates for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Electric sales to affiliates Price Volume Increase(decrease) ComEd $ 650 $ (2,035 ) $ (1,385 ) PECO 169 79 248 Total $ 819 $ (1,956 ) $ (1,137 ) In the ComEd territories, decreased volumes were the result of the expiration of Generations PPA with ComEd effective December 31, 2006. The decrease was partially offset by higher prices received by Generation following the expiration of the PPA, under which Generation was receiving below market rates. With the expiration of the PPA, Generation is now receiving higher prices from ComEd under the forward supply contracts. In the PECO territories, higher prices were the result of a scheduled electric generation rate increase that took effect January 1, 2007. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Volume $ 2,782 Price 412 Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 3,194 The increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily the result of higher volumes of generation sold to the market as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales decreased $91 million for 2007 as compared to 2006, of which $53 million of the decrease was due to lower volumes as a result of lower demand and $38 million was due to lower realized prices. Other revenues. The decrease in other revenues in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to a $408 million decrease for amounts recorded related to the Settlement, a decrease of $86 million due to the cessation of a tolling agreement and a $66 million decrease related to the termination of decommissioning collections from ComEd in accordance with the terms and conditions of the ICC order which only permitted such collections through December 31, 2006, partially offset by income of $223 million related to the termination of the State Line PPA. Additionally, a $40 million decrease in other revenues was attributable to the sale of Termoel&eacute;ctrica del Golfo (TEG) and Termoel&eacute;ctrica Pe&ntilde;oles (TEP) on February 9, 2007 and the resulting absence of revenue thereafter. 95 Table of Contents Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 140,359 139,610 749 0.5 % Purchases non trading portfolio 38,021 38,297 (276 ) (0.7 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 11,270 12,773 (1,503 ) (11.8 )% Total supply 189,650 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The following table presents changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2007 compared to 2006. Generation considers the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense as a useful measure to analyze the profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. (in millions) Price Volume Increase(Decrease) Purchased power costs (a) $ 236 $ (47 ) $ 189 Generation costs (b) 2 (5 ) (3 ) Fuel resale costs (56 ) (38 ) (94 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. 275 Increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ 367 (a) Excludes the net impact of $119 million loss recorded in 2007 associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska. (b) Excludes the net impact of a $13 million one time settlement with the Department of Energy recorded in 2006 for uranium enrichment services. n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power cost includes all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to lower volumes needed to supply ComEd as a result of the expiration of the PPA at December 31, 2006. Generation incurred overall higher prices for purchased power, partially offset by a decrease of $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in 2007. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel cost for internally generated energy. Generation costs were relatively flat in 2007, as compared to 2006. The decrease in volume of $5 million was primarily due to lower fossil and hydroelectric generation, partially offset by higher nuclear generation. Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs for 2007 as compared to 2006 consisted of overall lower prices resulting in a decrease of $56 million. Additionally, a decrease of $38 million was the result of lower volumes caused by lower demand. Mark to market. Mark to market losses on power derivative activities were $253 million in 2007 compared to gains of $180 million in 2006. Mark to market gains on fuel derivative activities were $81 million in 2007 compared to losses of $77 million in 2006. 96 Table of Contents The following table presents average electric revenues, supply costs and margins per MWh of electricity sold during 2007, as compared to 2006. As denoted in the table, average electric margins are defined as average electric revenues less average electric supply costs. Generation considers average electric margins useful measures to analyze the change in profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these margins may not be a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. ($/MWh) 2007 2006 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 54.90 $ 39.16 40.2 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 54.59 51.03 7.0 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 54.70 43.60 25.5 % Average electric supply cost (a)(b) excluding the trading portfolio $ 20.44 $ 18.02 13.4 % Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 34.26 $ 25.58 33.9 % (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. (b) Excludes the net impact of the $119 million loss related to the execution of the Georgia Power PPA and costs related to the termination of the State Line PPA during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007. The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2007 as compared to 2006. As demonstrated in the table, nuclear fleet capacity factor is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time and its output if the plant had operated at full capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one (1) MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet production between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures may not be a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2007 2006 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 94.5 % 93.9 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 14.46 $ 13.85 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The nuclear fleet capacity factor increased primarily due to fewer outage days during 2007 compared to 2006. For 2007 and 2006, refueling outage days totaled 195 and 237, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 59 and 71, respectively. The higher number of net MWhs generated and lower costs due to fewer planned refueling outage days were offset by higher costs for labor, nuclear fuel, NRC reactor fees, security costs and material condition work, resulting in an increase in the production cost per MWh for 2007 as compared to 2006. 97 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Payroll, pension and benefit costs $ 85 New nuclear site development costs 49 Decommissioning related activities 40 TEG and TEP related expenses (39 ) Nuclear refueling outage costs including the co owned Salem plant (32 ) Contractor expenses 24 Corporate allocations 14 Other 8 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 149 The $85 million increase in payroll, pension and benefit costs reflected the impact of inflation as well as an increase in various direct fringe costs. The $49 million increase in new nuclear site development costs was due to costs incurred for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas, including fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. The $40 million increase in nuclear decommissioning related activities was primarily associated with the recognition of a credit of $29 million, compared to a credit of $149 million recognized in 2006, representing reductions in the asset retirement obligation in excess of the asset retirement cost balance for the AmerGen units. Additionally, decommissioning related activities decreased by $66 million resulting from the termination of revenue collections on December 31, 2006 from ComEd, which likewise no longer required an offset through operating and maintenance expense, and decreased by $14 million due to the offset of certain income taxes associated with decommission related activity. The $39 million decrease in expenses related to TEG and TEP was due to the sale of the investment in 2007. The $32 million decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs was associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006. The $24 million increase in contractor expense was primarily related to staff augmentation and maintenance work at the nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric plants. The $14 million increase in corporate support service costs reflected an increase in a variety of BSC services allocated to Generation, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology and supply management services. Depreciation and Amortization. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the reassessment of the useful lives, for accounting purposes, of several fossil facilities and the write off of certain asset retirement costs in 2006. Interest Expense. The increase in net interest expense for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily attributable to an increase in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of the FIN 48 tax interest calculation and an increase in interest expense related to the bond issuance during the third quarter of 2007, partially offset by an interest payment accrued in 2006 for the settlement of a tax matter, a decline in the amount of commercial paper that was outstanding and an increase in average cash on hand balances during 2007 compared to 2006. 98 Table of Contents Other, Net. The increase in other, net in 2007 compared to 2006 reflects a gain on sale of investments recognized in 2007 and income and gains associated with nuclear decommissioning trust funds, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Effective January 1, 2008, the utilization of the fair value option under SFAS No. 159 for nuclear decommissioning trust funds will allow Generation to recognize unrealized gains, which will be included in other, net in Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact of adoption of SFAS No. 159. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective tax rate was 40.2% for 2007 compared to 38.2% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was attributable to an increase in deferred tax expense associated with the generation portion of ComEds research and development settlement as well as ComEds and PECOs application of the indirect cost capitalization method settlement guidelines recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, realized gains recognized in the fourth quarter by the qualified nuclear decommissioning trusts also contributed to the increase in the effective tax rate. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe have been presented as discontinued operations within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Generations Consolidated Statement of Income for 2007 reflects a $4 million (after tax) gain on the disposal of discontinued operations related primarily to Sithe, resulting from a settlement agreement between a subsidiary of Sithe, the Pennsylvania Attorney Generals Office and the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue regarding a previously disputed tax position asserted for the 2000 tax year. Generations Consolidated Statement of Income and Comprehensive Income for 2006 reflects a $4 million (after tax) gain on disposal of discontinued operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. Results of Operations ComEd 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 3 Purchased power expense 3,747 3,292 (455 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense 2,357 2,809 (452 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,091 745 (346 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 440 430 (10 ) Taxes other than income 314 303 (11 ) Total other operating expenses 1,845 2,254 409 Operating income 512 555 (43 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (318 ) (308 ) (10 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (7 ) (10 ) 3 Other, net 58 96 (38 ) Total other income and deductions (267 ) (222 ) (45 ) Income before income taxes 245 333 (88 ) Income taxes 80 445 365 Net income (loss) $ 165 $ (112 ) $ 277 99 Table of Contents Net Income. As more fully described below, ComEds net income (loss) for 2007 compared to 2006 reflected the impact of a goodwill impairment charge in 2006 partially offset by higher purchased power expense, higher operating and maintenance expense, and the impacts of the 2006 benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which it is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 or additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to help reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. In 2007, ComEd incurred increased costs associated with transitioning from the rate freeze period, including implementing the rate relief programs. Operating Revenues and Purchased Power Expense. ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. ComEd has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense RevenueNet ofPurchasedPowerExpense Rate changes and mix $ 748 $ 1,346 $ (598 ) Rate Relief Program (33 ) (33 ) Transmission 115 (17 ) 132 Weather 141 83 58 Delivery volume 20 20 Customer choice (917 ) (917 ) Other (71 ) (40 ) (31 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 3 $ 455 $ (452 ) Rate changes and mix Revenue. The increase in revenue related to rate changes and mix primarily reflects the end of the rate freeze and the implementation of market based rates for electricity and the impact of the distribution rate increase. In 2006, most customers were charged a bundled rate that included distribution, transmission and the cost of electricity. Additionally, under Illinois law, no CTCs are permitted to be collected after 2006. As of January 2007, ComEd began billing customers on an 100 Table of Contents unbundled basis, which includes separate charges for distribution, transmission and electricity. Given the relatively small increase of $83 million approved by the ICC in the annual distribution revenue requirements, the majority of the change in year over year pricing was driven by the inclusion of market based electricity rates. The market based electricity rates were determined through the reverse auction competitive bidding process. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Additionally starting in 2007, ComEd is recovering former manufactured gas plant remediation costs from customers. Purchased Power. Purchased power increased due to higher electricity prices. The PPA with Generation terminated at the end of 2006. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under its supplier forward contracts for the blended and annual products and from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets for the hourly product. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Rate Relief Program Revenue. As part of its program for customer rate relief, ComEd is funding a portion of the credits issued to customers. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Rate Relief Programs. Transmission Revenue. In 2007, ComEd experienced increased revenue from the provision of transmission services resulting from increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Additionally on June 5, 2007, FERC issued an order in ComEds transmission rate case conditionally approving ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate and associated rate increase effective May 1, 2007, subject to refund. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Transmission Rate Case. Purchased Power. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. These charges were being collected subject to refund as they are being disputed. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. SECA charges expired on March 31, 2006. As ComEd was a net collector of SECA charges, ComEd recorded $5 million of net SECA collections in 2006. Also during 2006, ComEd adjusted its reserve for possible SECA refunds. In 2007, based on FERC approval of certain settlements, ComEd reduced its reserve for possible SECA refunds to reflect managements best estimate of the remaining amounts that will ultimately be required to be refunded. The reserve existing at December 31, 2007 continues to represent managements best estimate. Management of ComEd believes that the appropriate reserve has been established in the event that some portion of the remaining SECA collections that are not settled are required to be refunded. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the SECA rates. Weather Revenue. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions for 2007 compared to 2006. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity. Conversely, mild weather in non summer months reduces demand. In ComEds service territory, heating degree days were 8% higher and cooling degree days were 19% higher during 2007 compared to 2006. 101 Table of Contents Purchased Power. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather resulted from higher demand due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Delivery volume Revenue. The increase in revenues for the provision of distribution services primarily resulted from an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers. Customer choice Revenue. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied electricity and generation service. As of December 31, 2007, three competitive electric generation suppliers had been granted approval to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, these suppliers are not currently supplying electricity to any of ComEds residential customers. As a result of ComEds higher electricity rates, more non residential customers have elected to have a competitive electric generation supplier provide their electricity. For 2007 and 2006, 48% and 28%, respectively, of electricity delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers or the ComEd power purchase option (PPO) which is based on market based rates. Most of the customers previously receiving electricity under the PPO are now electing either to buy their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier or from ComEd under tariff rates. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 44,200 20,300 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % (b) Volume (GWhs) (a) 45,070 25,521 Percentage of total retail deliveries 48 % 28 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kWh. (b) Less than one percent. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Other Revenue Wholesale Contracts. ComEds revenue decreased $64 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. Revenue City of Chicago Settlement. ComEd paid $23 million under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago, which was recorded as a reduction of revenue. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Revenue Economic Hedge Derivative Contracts. During 2007 as compared to 2006, ComEd had a net $6 million increase in economic hedge derivative contracts activity, including mark to market adjustments and settlements. 102 Table of Contents Purchased Power Wholesale Contracts. ComEds purchased power decreased $50 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 201 Contracting 31 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (b) 26 Wages and salaries 23 Incremental storm related costs 19 Fringe benefits (c) 14 Corporate allocations 11 Materials and supplies expense 8 Post rate freeze period transition expenses (d) 7 Postage 7 Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 346 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC rehearing order, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses including severance costs, MGP costs, procurement case and rate case costs. (b) This increase resulted from a change in collectibility assumptions in response to changes in the customer payment patterns, changes in customer prices, changes in termination practices and certain changes in business and economic conditions. (c) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits primarily due to increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs. (d) Includes increased advertising costs, costs associated with the Rate Relief programs and other costs associated with transitioning to the post rate freeze period. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The assessment indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2007 annual goodwill impairment assessment (performed in the fourth quarter) resulted in no additional impairment. ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2007. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 15 Other amortization expense (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 10 103 Table of Contents In 2006, ComEds amortization primarily reflected $43 million of the amortization of the regulatory asset for recoverable transition costs, while in 2007, ComEds amortization primarily reflected the initial $35 million of amortization of the various regulatory assets authorized by the ICC in its 2006 orders. See Notes 19 and 20 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased for 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a $7 million refund of Illinois Electricity Distribution tax received in 2006. Interest Expense, Net. The increase in interest expense, net for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Interest expense on debt (a) $ 24 Amortization of debt related costs (b) 20 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (c) (32 ) Other (2 ) Increase in interest expense, net $ 10 (a) This increase resulted from higher debt balances and higher interest rates. (b) In 2007, ComEds interest expense, net reflected the initial amortization of the regulatory asset related to the early debt retirement costs authorized by the ICC in 2006. (c) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ (87 ) Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (b) 41 Gain on disposal of assets and investments, net 4 Other 4 Decrease in other, net $ (38 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. (b) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 32.7% for 2007, compared to 133.6% for 2006. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the non deductible impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill accounting. The non deductible goodwill impairment charge decreased income (loss) before income taxes which increased the effective tax rate from continuing operations by 81.6% in 2006. The balance of the reduction was due to a benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization change in 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. 104 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 29,374 28,330 1,044 3.7 % Small commercial & industrial 16,452 24,122 (7,670 ) (31.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,915 10,336 (8,421 ) (81.5 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 766 2,254 (1,488 ) (66.0 )% Total full service 48,507 65,042 (16,535 ) (25.4 )% PPO Small commercial & industrial 16 2,475 (2,459 ) (99.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 34 2,259 (2,225 ) (98.5 )% 50 4,734 (4,684 ) (98.9 )% Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 17,380 5,505 11,875 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 27,122 15,282 11,840 77.5 % Public authorities & electric railroads 518 518 n.m. 45,020 20,787 24,233 116.6 % Total PPO and delivery only 45,070 25,521 19,549 76.6 % Total retail deliveries 93,577 90,563 3,014 3.3 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. n.m. Not meaningful. Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 3,161 $ 2,453 $ 708 28.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,618 1,882 (264 ) (14.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 151 563 (412 ) (73.2 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 67 137 (70 ) (51.1 )% Total full service 4,997 5,035 (38 ) (0.8 )% PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 1 178 (177 ) (99.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 3 137 (134 ) (97.8 )% 4 315 (311 ) (98.7 )% Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 261 85 176 n.m. Large commercial & industrial 276 155 121 78.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 5 5 n.m. 542 240 302 125.8 % Total PPO and delivery only 546 555 (9 ) (1.6 )% Total electric retail revenues 5,543 5,590 (47 ) (0.8 )% Other revenues (d) 561 511 50 9.8 % Total operating revenues $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 3 n.m. (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC through December 2006. 105 Table of Contents (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC through December 2006. (d) Other revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities, other wholesale energy sales and economic hedge derivative contracts. n.m. Not meaningful Results of Operations PECO 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,613 $ 5,168 $ 445 Purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,983 2,702 (281 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,630 2,466 164 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 630 628 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 773 710 (63 ) Taxes other than income 280 262 (18 ) Total other operating expenses 1,683 1,600 (83 ) Operating income 947 866 81 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (248 ) (266 ) 18 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (7 ) (9 ) 2 Other, net 45 30 15 Total other income and deductions (210 ) (245 ) 35 Income before income taxes 737 621 116 Income taxes 230 180 (50 ) Net income 507 441 66 Preferred stock dividends 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 503 $ 437 $ 66 Net Income. PECOs net income for 2007 compared to 2006 increased primarily due to higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense, which reflected increased sales from favorable weather conditions, increased usage across all customer classes for both electric and gas, the completion of certain authorized rate increases that began in 2006 and the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute, as well as the recognition of income resulting from a reduction in the reserve after the successful PURTA tax appeal. Partially offsetting these factors was higher scheduled CTC amortization, which was in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. Electric and Gas Operating Revenues, Purchased Power Expense and Fuel Expense. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 106 Table of Contents The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power expense and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower ExpenseandFuel Expense Net Weather $ 108 $ 47 $ 61 $ 119 $ 98 $ 21 $ 227 $ 145 $ 82 Volume 82 32 50 4 6 (2 ) 86 38 48 Rate increases (decreases) 195 184 11 (114 ) (114 ) 81 70 11 Settlement of PJM billing dispute (10 ) 10 (10 ) 10 Customer choice 8 8 8 8 Other rate changes and mix (28 ) (3 ) (25 ) 5 8 (3 ) (23 ) 5 (28 ) Other 38 4 34 28 21 7 66 25 41 Total increase $ 403 $ 262 $ 141 $ 42 $ 19 $ 23 $ 445 $ 281 $ 164 Weather Revenues. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating degree days and cooling degree days were 16% and 15% higher, respectively, during 2007 compared to 2006. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was due to higher demand as a result of favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Volume Revenues. The increase in revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in expenses as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. Rate increases (decreases) Revenues. The total increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases of $195 million reflected $184 million related to a scheduled electric generation rate increase, which was 107 Table of Contents effective for customer bills for electric generation service delivered after customers January 2007 meter readings. This electric generation rate increase represented the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase did not affect operating income as PECO incurred corresponding and offsetting purchased power expense under its PPA with Generation. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases also reflected $11 million associated with the completion in January 2007 of scheduled CTC and distribution rate increases that began in 2006. The decrease in gas revenues was due to lower market prices for gas, on which the PAPUC approved rates, which are adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas adjustment clause, are based. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2007 was 17% lower than the average rate for 2006. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to electric rate increases reflected the scheduled generation rate increase under the PPA with Generation, which directly offset the increase in revenues. The decrease in fuel expense reflected lower gas prices. Settlement of PJM billing dispute Purchased Power. PECOs purchased power expense decreased $10 million due to the settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. For 2007 and 2006, 2% of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 29,200 34,400 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 2 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 627 767 Percentage of total retail deliveries 2 % 2 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). The increase in electric retail revenue and expense associated with customer choice reflected customers, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class, returning to PECO as their electric supplier. Other rate changes and mix Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues attributable to other rate changes and mix primarily reflected the effects of rate blocking, whereby certain customer charges per unit of energy are reduced when customer usage by certain commercial and industrial customers exceeds a certain threshold. 108 Table of Contents Other revenues and expenses Revenues. The increase in electric revenues was primarily due to increased late payment fees and other factors, none of which were individually significant. The increase in gas revenues was primarily due to increased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel. The increase in fuel expense was due to increased off system sales. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (a) $ 13 Contracting (b) 12 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits (c) 6 Environmental reserve (d) 4 Injuries and damages expense 3 Incremental storm related costs (e) (39 ) Severance related expenses (5 ) PSEG merger integration costs incurred in 2006 (4 ) Other 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) Reflects higher 2007 expense primarily associated with a revision of estimated uncollectible accounts in response to certain changes in business and economic conditions. (b) Reflects higher 2007 contracting expense primarily associated with vegetation management services and tax consulting. (c) Reflects stock compensation, pension and other postretirement benefit costs, among other fringe benefits. (d) Reflects lower expense in 2006 due to a settlement related to a Superfund site. (e) Reflects higher 2006 storm related costs primarily associated with a significant storm in the third quarter of 2006. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) CTC amortization (a) $ 69 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (9 ) Other 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 63 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $9 million in 2006. The new system was implemented in 2006. 109 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 25 State franchise tax adjustment in 2006 (b) 7 Sales and use tax adjustment in 2006 (b) 5 Reduction of reserve related to PURTA tax appeal (c) (17 ) Other (2 ) Increase in taxes other than income $ 18 (a) The increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues, as these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities. (b) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. (c) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding PURTA activity. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to scheduled payments on lower long term debt balances owed to PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT), partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Other, Net. The increase in other, net for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to interest income recorded as a result of the reduction in the reserve after the successful PURTA tax appeal and interest income related to uncertain tax positions under FIN 48. Partially offsetting these factors were a 2006 investment tax credit refund and a 2006 research and development credit refund. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of other, net. See Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the adoption of FIN 48. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement for additional information regarding PURTA activity. Effective Income Tax Rate. PECOs effective income tax rate was 31.2% for 2007 compared to 29.0% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an investment tax credit refund and a research and development credit refund in 2006, partially offset by the benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. 110 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 13,446 12,796 650 5.1 % Small commercial & industrial 8,288 7,818 470 6.0 % Large commercial & industrial 16,522 15,898 624 3.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 930 906 24 2.6 % Total full service 39,186 37,418 1,768 4.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 42 61 (19 ) (31.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 571 671 (100 ) (14.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 14 35 (21 ) (60.0 )% Total delivery only 627 767 (140 ) (18.3 )% Total retail deliveries 39,813 38,185 1,628 4.3 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,948 $ 1,780 $ 168 9.4 % Small commercial & industrial 1,042 943 99 10.5 % Large commercial & industrial 1,386 1,286 100 7.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 89 83 6 7.2 % Total full service 4,465 4,092 373 9.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 4 5 (1 ) (20.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 30 36 (6 ) (16.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 1 (1 ) (100.0 )% Total delivery only 34 42 (8 ) (19.0 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,499 4,134 365 8.8 % Other revenue (c) 276 238 38 16.0 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,775 $ 4,372 $ 403 9.2 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 111 Table of Contents PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2007 2006 Variance % Change Retail sales 58,968 50,578 8,390 16.6 % Transportation 27,632 25,527 2,105 8.2 % Total 86,600 76,105 10,495 13.8 % Revenue 2007 2006 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 784 $ 770 $ 14 1.8 % Transportation 17 16 1 6.3 % Resales and other 37 10 27 n.m. Total gas revenue $ 838 $ 796 $ 42 5.3 % n.m. Not meaningful Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Results of Operations Exelon 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 298 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 5,232 5,670 438 Operating and maintenance 3,868 3,694 (174 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 1,487 1,334 (153 ) Taxes other than income 771 728 (43 ) Total operating expenses 12,134 12,633 499 Operating income 3,521 2,724 797 Other income and deductions Interest expense (616 ) (513 ) (103 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (264 ) (316 ) 52 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (111 ) (134 ) 23 Other, net 266 134 132 Total other income and deductions (725 ) (829 ) 104 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,796 1,895 901 Income taxes 1,206 944 (262 ) Income from continuing operations 1,590 951 639 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 2 14 (12 ) Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 1,592 965 627 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (42 ) 42 Net income $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 0.99 112 Table of Contents Net Income. Exelons net income for 2006 reflects higher realized prices on market sales and increased nuclear output at Generation; a one time benefit of approximately $158 million to recover previously incurred severance costs approved by the December 2006 amended ICC rate order; a one time benefit of approximately $130 million to recover certain costs approved by the July 2006 ICC rate order; a decrease in Generations nuclear ARO resulting from changes in managements assessment of the probabilities associated with the anticipated timing of cash flows to decommission primarily AmerGen nuclear plants; unrealized mark to market gains; increased electric revenues at PECO associated with certain authorized rate increases; and increased kWh deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, reflecting load growth at ComEd and PECO. These increases were partially offset by the impact of a $776 million impairment charge associated with ComEds goodwill; unfavorable weather conditions in both the ComEd and PECO service territories; a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased severance and severance related charges; losses from investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities; increased depreciation and amortization expense, including CTC amortization at PECO; and higher operating and maintenance expenses including increased costs associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory, increased nuclear refueling outage costs, increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R, and the impacts of inflation. Exelons net income for 2005 reflects an impairment charge of $1.2 billion associated with ComEds goodwill; unrealized mark to market losses; losses of $42 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47; favorable tax settlements at Generation and PECO; and gains realized on AmerGens decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy. Operating Revenues. Operating revenues increased primarily due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation due to an increase in market prices; higher nuclear output; electric rate increases at PECO; and higher kWh deliveries at ComEd and PECO, excluding the effects of weather. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. See further analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to lower volumes of power purchased in the market and decreased fossil generation, partially offset by overall higher market energy prices and higher natural gas and oil prices. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply in 2006 compared to 22% for 2005. See further analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to a charge of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the terminated proposed Merger with PSEG; increased nuclear refueling outage costs; increased severance and severance related charges; increased stock based compensation expense as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123 R; and the impacts from inflation. These increases were partially offset by a one time benefit of $201 million to recover certain costs approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order and the ICCs December 2006 amended rate order; the impact of the reduction in Generations estimated nuclear asset retirement obligation; mark to market gains associated with Exelons investment in synthetic fuel producing facilities; and a charge for a reserve recorded by Generation in 2005 for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Impairment of Goodwill. During 2006, ComEd recorded a $776 million impairment charge associated with its goodwill primarily due to the impacts of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. During 2005, in connection with the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment, ComEd recorded a $1.2 billion charge. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service across Exelon. 113 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to a reduction in 2005 of previously established real estate tax reserves at PECO and Generation and a net increase in utility revenue taxes at ComEd and PECO in 2006, partially offset by favorable state franchise tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Other Income and Deductions. The change in other income and deductions reflects increased interest expense associated with the debt issued in 2005 to fund Exelons voluntary pension contribution; higher interest rates on variable rate debt outstanding; higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for pre 1983 spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE; an interest payment to the IRS associated with the settlement of a tax matter at Generation; and a one time benefit of $87 million approved by the ICCs July 2006 rate order to recover previously incurred debt expenses to retire debt early. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 43.1% for 2006 compared to 49.8% for 2005. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income tax rate from continuing operations by 9.7% and 22.3% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Enterprises. Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. The results of Sithe are included in the Generation discussion below. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $12 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2006 and 2005 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 294 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (142 ) (2 ) (140 ) Total $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 639 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 114 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,128 $ 279 ComEd (112 ) (676 ) 564 PECO 441 520 (79 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 965 $ 627 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Generation $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 ComEd (112 ) (685 ) 573 PECO 441 517 (76 ) Other (a) (144 ) (7 ) (137 ) Total $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 669 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 3,978 4,482 504 Operating and maintenance 2,305 2,288 (17 ) Depreciation and amortization 279 254 (25 ) Taxes other than income 185 170 (15 ) Total operating expenses 6,747 7,194 447 Operating income 2,396 1,852 544 Other income and deductions Interest expense (159 ) (128 ) (31 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (1 ) (8 ) Other, net 41 95 (54 ) Total other income and deductions (127 ) (34 ) (93 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,269 1,818 451 Income taxes 866 709 (157 ) Income from continuing operations 1,403 1,109 294 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income from discontinued operations 4 19 (15 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 1,407 1,128 279 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (30 ) 30 Net income $ 1,407 $ 1,098 $ 309 115 Table of Contents Net Income. Generations net income for 2006 compared to 2005 increased due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expense, higher depreciation expense, higher interest expense and lower other income. The increase in Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense was due to realized revenues associated with forward sales contracts entered into in prior periods which were recognized at higher prices, combined with lower purchased power and fuel expense due to the impact of higher nuclear output. Unlike the energy delivery business, the effects of unusually warm or cold weather on Generation depend on the nature of its market position at the time of the unusual weather. Generations net income for 2006 and 2005 reflects income from discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (after tax), respectively. Operating Revenues. For 2006 and 2005, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 4,674 $ 4,775 $ (101 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 3,640 3,341 299 8.9 % Total energy sales revenue 8,314 8,116 198 2.4 % Retail gas sales 540 613 (73 ) (11.9 )% Trading portfolio 14 17 (3 ) (17.6 )% Other revenue (a) 275 300 (25 ) (8.3 )% Total revenue $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 97 1.1 % (a) Includes sales related to tolling agreements, fossil fuel sales, operating service agreements and decommissioning revenue from ComEd and PECO. Sales (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Electric sales to affiliates 119,354 121,961 (2,607 ) (2.1 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 71,326 72,376 (1,050 ) (1.5 )% Total sales 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% Trading volumes of 31,692 GWhs and 26,924 GWhs for 2006 and 2005, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. Revenue from sales to affiliates decreased $101 million in 2006 as compared to 2005. The decrease in revenue from sales to affiliates was primarily due to a $95 million decrease from lower electric sales volume, as well as a net $6 million decrease resulting from lower prices. In the ComEd territories, lower volumes resulted in a $115 million decrease in revenues as a result of lower demand resulting from milder weather year over year. In addition, price decreases totaling $128 million were a result of lower peak prices under the ComEd PPA. In the PECO territories, the higher volumes resulted in increased revenues of $20 million due to higher usage. The favorable price variance of $122 million was primarily the result of the scheduled PAPUC approved generation rate increase as well as to a lesser degree a change in the mix of average pricing related to the PPA with PECO. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase will take effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will have a favorable effect on Generations operating income in future years. 116 Table of Contents Wholesale and retail electric sales. The changes in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Price $ 353 Volume (54 ) Increase in wholesale and retail electric sales $ 299 Wholesale and retail sales increased $299 million due to an increase in realized revenues associated with forward sales entered into in prior periods, which were recognized at higher prices for the year ended December 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, offset by a reduction in volumes sold into the market as a result of lower supply. Retail gas sales. Retail gas sales decreased $73 million primarily due to lower volumes for 2006 compared to 2005, resulting in a $69 million decrease. Additionally, there was a decrease of $4 million due to lower realized prices for 2006 compared to 2005. Other revenues. The decrease in 2006 was primarily due to a decrease in fossil fuel sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: Supply Source (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,610 137,936 1,674 1.2 % Purchases non trading portfolio 38,297 42,623 (4,326 ) (10.1 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 12,773 13,778 (1,005 ) (7.3 )% Total supply 190,680 194,337 (3,657 ) (1.9 )% (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. The changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: (in millions) Price Volume Increase(Decrease) Purchased power costs $ (81 ) $ (319 ) $ (400 ) Generation costs 38 4 42 Fuel resale costs 34 (65 ) (31 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. (115 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (504 ) n.m. Not meaningful Purchased Power Costs. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation experienced a decrease of $319 million due to lower volumes of purchased power in the market as a result of a lower demand from affiliates. Additionally, overall lower prices paid for purchased power in 2006 compared to 2005 resulted in a $81 million decrease. Generation Costs. Generation costs include fuel costs for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increased prices related to nuclear and fossil fuel generation, resulting in a $38 million increase. 117 Table of Contents Fuel Resale Costs. Fuel resale costs include retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs in 2006 compared to 2005 were a result of a $65 million decrease in the retail gas business resulting from lower volumes, partially offset by overall higher prices paid for gas. Mark to market. Mark to market gains on power derivative activities were $180 million in 2006 compared to losses of $12 million in 2005. Mark to market losses on fuel derivative activities were $77 million in 2006 compared to zero in 2005. Generations average margin per MWh of electricity sold for 2006 and 2005 was as follows: ($/MWh) 2006 2005 % Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates $ 39.16 $ 39.15 n.m. Wholesale and retail electric sales 51.03 46.16 10.6 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 43.60 41.76 4.4 % Average electric supply cost (a) excluding the trading portfolio $ 18.02 $ 20.11 (10.4 )% Average margin excluding the trading portfolio $ 25.58 $ 21.65 18.2 % (a) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales. n.m. Not meaningful Nuclear fleet operating data and purchased power cost data for 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2006 2005 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 93.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 13.85 $ 13.03 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear. Although total refueling outage days increased during 2006 compared to 2005, the nuclear fleet capacity factor for the Generation operating nuclear fleet increased due to fewer non refueling outage days during 2006 compared to 2005. For 2006 and 2005, non refueling outage days totaled 71 and 112, respectively, and refueling outage days totaled 237 and 217, respectively. Higher costs for nuclear fuel, costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days, higher costs for refueling outage inspection and maintenance activities, costs for the tritium related expenses, an NRC fee increase, and inflationary cost increases for normal plant operations and maintenance offset the higher number of MWhs generated resulting in a higher production cost per MWh produced for 2006 as compared to 2005. There were ten planned refueling outages and sixteen non refueling outages during 2006 compared to nine planned refueling outages and twenty five non refueling outages during 2005 at the Generation operated nuclear stations. 118 Table of Contents Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Pension, payroll and benefit costs $ 153 Contractor expenses 22 Nuclear refueling outage costs including the co owned Salem plant 19 NRC fees 11 Godley contribution 11 Tritium related expense 9 Reduction in ARO (a) (149 ) 2005 accrual for estimated future asbestos related bodily injury claims (b) (43 ) 2005 co owner settlement with PSEG related to postretirement benefits (17 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 17 (a) For further discussion, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) For further discussion, see Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The $17 million increase in operating and maintenance expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a $153 million increase in various payroll related expenses, including increased stock based compensation expense of $41 million primarily as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R as of January 1, 2006 and increased direct and allocated costs related to payroll, severance, pension and other postretirement benefits, a $22 million period over period increase in contractor costs, primarily related to staff augmentation and recurring maintenance work at Nuclear and Power, a $19 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the additional planned refueling outage days during 2006 as compared to 2005, and higher costs for inspection and maintenance activities. Additionally, on December 22, 2006, as a gesture of goodwill and corporate citizenship, Generation contributed approximately $11 million into an escrow account to assist the Godley Public Water District with the installation of a new public drinking water system for the Village of Godley. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 was a result of recent capital additions. Taxes Other Than Income. The increase in taxes other than income incurred during 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to increasing the property tax reserve for 2006 property taxes for Byron, Clinton and Dresden, higher payroll related taxes which were the result of higher payroll costs for 2006 and a reduction recorded in 2005 of a previously established real estate reserve associated with the settlement over the TMI real estate assessment. The increases were partially offset by a sales and use tax reserve recorded during the third quarter of 2005 and a gas revenue tax adjustment recorded during the fourth quarter of 2005. Interest Expense. The increase in interest expense during 2006 as compared to 2005 was attributable to higher variable interest rates on debt outstanding, higher interest expense on Generations one time fee for spent nuclear fuel obligations to the DOE and an interest payment made to the IRS in settlement of a tax matter. Other, Net. The decrease in other income in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to gains realized in the second quarter of 2005 totaling $36 million related to the decommissioning trust fund investments for the AmerGen plants due to changes in Generations investment strategy. 119 Table of Contents Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 38.2% for 2006 compared to 39.0% for 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the change in the effective income tax rate. Discontinued Operations. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe. Accordingly, the results of operations and the gain on the sale of Sithe have been presented as discontinued operations within Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Generations net income in 2006 and 2005 reflects a gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $4 million and $19 million (both after tax), respectively. See Notes 2 and 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. The income from discontinued operations decreased by $15 million for 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the first quarter of 2005 partially offset by an adjustment to the gain on the sale of Sithe in the second quarter of 2006 as a result of the expiration of certain tax indemnifications, accrued interest and collections on receivables arising from the sale of Sithe that had been fully reserved. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles. The cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. Results of Operations ComEd 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) Purchased power expense 3,292 3,520 228 Revenue net of purchased power expense 2,809 2,744 65 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 745 833 88 Impairment of goodwill 776 1,207 431 Depreciation and amortization 430 413 (17 ) Taxes other than income 303 303 Total other operating expenses 2,254 2,756 502 Operating income (loss) 555 (12 ) 567 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (308 ) (291 ) (17 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (10 ) (14 ) 4 Other, net 96 4 92 Total other income and deductions (222 ) (301 ) 79 Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 333 (313 ) 646 Income taxes 445 363 (82 ) Loss before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles (112 ) (676 ) 564 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (9 ) 9 Net loss $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 573 120 Table of Contents Net Loss. ComEds decreased net loss in 2006 compared to 2005 was driven by a smaller impairment of goodwill in 2006, lower purchased power expense and one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July 2006 and December 2006 ICC rate orders as more fully described below, partially offset by lower operating revenues. Operating Revenues and Purchased Power Expense. ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. ComEd has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense RevenueNet ofPurchasedPowerExpense Rate changes and mix $ 23 $ (135 ) $ 158 Volume 84 42 42 Weather (226 ) (111 ) (115 ) Customer choice (67 ) (56 ) (11 ) Other 23 32 (9 ) Total increase (decrease) $ (163 ) $ (228 ) $ 65 Rate changes and mix Revenue. The increase in revenue related to rate and mix changes represents differences in year over year consumption between various customer classes offset by a decline in the CTC paid by customers of competitive electric generation suppliers due to the increase in market energy prices. The average rate paid by various customers is dependent on the amount and time of day that the power is consumed. Changes in customer consumption patterns, including increased usage, can result in an overall decrease in the average rate even though the tariff or rate schedule remains unchanged. Under current Illinois law, no CTCs will be collected after 2006. Starting in January 2007, ComEd began collecting revenues consistent with the approved ICC orders in the Procurement Case and the Rate Case. Purchased Power. Purchased power decreased due to the decrease in contracted energy prices under the PPA that ComEd had with Generation. The PPA contract was entered into in March 2004 and reflected forward power prices in existence at that time. The PPA terminated at the end of 2006 and was replaced with the reverse auction process in 2007, which was approved by the ICC. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Volume Revenue. Revenues were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers and increased usage per customer. 121 Table of Contents Purchased Power. The amount of purchased power attributable to volume increased as a result of increased usage by ComEd supplied customers on a weather normalized basis versus the same period in 2005. Weather Revenue. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2006 compared to 2005. In ComEds service territory, cooling and heating degree days were 20% and 8% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense attributable to weather was due to unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Customer choice Revenue. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. As of December 31, 2006, one competitive electric generation supplier had been granted approval to serve residential customers in the ComEd service territory. However, this supplier was not supplying electricity to any residential customers. For 2006 and 2005, 23% and 21%, respectively, of energy delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. Most of the customers previously receiving energy under the PPO are now electing either to buy their power from a competitive electric generation supplier or from ComEd under bundled rates. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Volume (GWhs) (a) 20,787 19,310 Percentage of total retail deliveries 23 % 21 % Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier or the ComEd PPO: Number of customers at period end 20,300 21,300 Percentage of total retail customers (b) (b) Volume (GWhs) (a) 25,521 30,905 Percentage of total retail deliveries 28 % 33 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). (b) Less than one percent. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. Other Revenue Wholesale and Miscellaneous Revenues. The wholesale and miscellaneous revenues increase primarily reflects an increase in transmission revenue reflecting increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Revenue Economic Hedge Derivative Contracts. Mark to market contracts primarily reflect a mark to market loss associated with one wholesale contract that had previously been recorded as a normal sale under SFAS No. 133 in 2005. This contract expires in December 2007. 122 Table of Contents Purchased Power PJM transmission. The decrease in PJM transmission expense reflects a decrease in ancillary charges, partially offset by increased peak demand and consumption by ComEd supplied customers. Purchased Power SECA rates. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM became obligated to pay SECA collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges. These charges were being collected subject to refund as they are being disputed. As a result of current events related to SECA disputes, during the first quarter of 2006, ComEd increased its reserve for amounts to be refunded. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. As ComEd was a net collector of SECA charges, the 2005 purchased power expense, which reflected a full year of SECA collections, was lower than 2006, which reflected only three months of SECA collections, due to the expiration of SECA charges on March 31, 2006. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the SECA rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ (201 ) Fringe benefits (b) 43 Severance related expenses 17 Wages and salaries 17 Customers Affordable Reliable Energy program 9 Environmental costs 5 Rent and lease expense 5 Storm costs 4 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Other 11 Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (88 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC order on rehearing, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses, including MGP costs, severance costs and procurement case costs. (b) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits, including increased stock based compensation expense of $24 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006 and increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs of $14 million. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2006 annual goodwill impairment assessment (performed in the fourth quarter) resulted in no additional impairment. After reflecting the impairment, ComEd had approximately $2.7 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2005, ComEd completed the annually required assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes. The 2005 test indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $1.2 billion was recorded. The 2005 impairment was driven by changes in the fair value of ComEds PPA with Generation, the upcoming end of ComEds transition period and related transition revenues, 123 Table of Contents regulatory uncertainty in Illinois as of November 1, 2005, anticipated increases in capital expenditures in future years and decreases in market valuations of comparable companies that are utilized to estimate the fair value of ComEd. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 12 Other amortization expense 5 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 17 In 2007, ComEds amortization will reflect the elimination of the recoverable transition costs regulatory asset and the initial amortization of the various regulatory assets authorized by the ICC in its July and December 2006 orders. Taxes Other Than Income. Taxes other than income remained constant in 2006 compared to 2005. Interest Expense, Net. The increase in interest expense, net in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily resulted from higher debt balances and higher interest rates. Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 87 Loss on settlement of 2005 cash flow swaps 15 Sale of receivable in 2005 (3 ) Loss on disposition of assets and investments, net (3 ) Other (4 ) Increase in other, net $ 92 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded a one time benefit associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. Effective Income Tax Rate. The effective income tax rate was 133.6% and (116.0)% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. The goodwill impairment charges increased the effective income tax rate by 81.6% in 2006 and decreased the effective income tax rate by 135.0% in 2005. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 124 Table of Contents Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 28,330 30,042 (1,712 ) (5.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 24,122 21,378 2,744 12.8 % Large commercial & industrial 10,336 7,904 2,432 30.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 2,254 2,133 121 5.7 % Total full service 65,042 61,457 3,585 5.8 % PPO Small commercial & industrial 2,475 5,591 (3,116 ) (55.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 2,259 6,004 (3,745 ) (62.4 )% 4,734 11,595 (6,861 ) (59.2 )% Delivery only (b) Small commercial & industrial 5,505 5,677 (172 ) (3.0 )% Large commercial & industrial 15,282 13,633 1,649 12.1 % 20,787 19,310 1,477 7.6 % Total PPO and delivery only 25,521 30,905 (5,384 ) (17.4 )% Total retail deliveries 90,563 92,362 (1,799 ) (1.9 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 2,453 $ 2,584 $ (131 ) (5.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,882 1,671 211 12.6 % Large commercial & industrial 563 408 155 38.0 % Public authorities & electric railroads 137 132 5 3.8 % Total full service 5,035 4,795 240 5.0 % PPO (b) Small commercial & industrial 178 385 (207 ) (53.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 137 345 (208 ) (60.3 )% 315 730 (415 ) (56.8 )% Delivery only (c) Small commercial & industrial 85 95 (10 ) (10.5 )% Large commercial & industrial 155 156 (1 ) (0.6 )% 240 251 (11 ) (4.4 )% Total PPO and delivery only 555 981 (426 ) (43.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 5,590 5,776 (186 ) (3.2 )% Other revenues (d) 511 488 23 4.7 % Total operating revenues $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ (163 ) (2.6 )% (a) Full service revenue reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which include the cost of energy and the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy. (b) Revenues from customers choosing the PPO include an energy charge at market rates, transmission and distribution charges, and a CTC through December 2006. 125 Table of Contents (c) Delivery only revenues reflect revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC through December 2006. (d) Other revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities, other wholesale energy sales and economic hedge derivative contracts. Results of Operations PECO 2006 2005 Favorable(unfavorable)variance Operating revenues $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 258 Purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,702 2,515 (187 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,466 2,395 71 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 628 549 (79 ) Depreciation and amortization 710 566 (144 ) Taxes other than income 262 231 (31 ) Total other operating expenses 1,600 1,346 (254 ) Operating income 866 1,049 (183 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (266 ) (279 ) 13 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (9 ) (16 ) 7 Other, net 30 13 17 Total other income and deductions (245 ) (282 ) 37 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 621 767 (146 ) Income taxes 180 247 67 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 441 520 (79 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (3 ) 3 Net income 441 517 (76 ) Preferred stock dividends 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 437 $ 513 $ (76 ) Net Income. PECOs net income in 2006 decreased primarily due to higher scheduled CTC amortization and higher operating and maintenance expense, which reflected higher storm costs. Partially offsetting these factors were higher revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense. Higher net revenues reflected certain authorized electric rate increases, including a scheduled CTC rate increase, partially offset by lower net electric and gas revenues as a result of unfavorable weather relative to the prior year. The increases in CTC amortization expense and CTC rates were in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC. The increase in CTC amortization expense exceeded the increase in CTC revenues. Electric and Gas Operating Revenues, Purchased Power Expense and Fuel Expense. PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric and revenue net of fuel expense for gas. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of 126 Table of Contents purchased power expense and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power expense and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPowerExpense Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower ExpenseandFuel Expense Net Rate increases $ 237 $ 94 $ 143 $ 127 $ 127 $ $ 364 $ 221 $ 143 Unbilled revenue change in estimate 35 14 21 35 14 21 Volume 20 4 16 (10 ) (13 ) 3 10 (9 ) 19 Customer choice 62 62 62 62 Weather (91 ) (39 ) (52 ) (130 ) (107 ) (23 ) (221 ) (146 ) (75 ) PJM transmission 26 31 (5 ) 26 31 (5 ) Other rate changes and mix (10 ) (7 ) (3 ) (10 ) (7 ) (3 ) Other 27 (27 ) (8 ) (6 ) (2 ) (8 ) 21 (29 ) Total increase (decrease) $ 279 $ 186 $ 93 $ (21 ) $ 1 $ (22 ) $ 258 $ 187 $ 71 Rate increases Revenues. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases reflected scheduled CTC and generation rate increases in accordance with PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement with the PAPUC and the elimination of the aggregate $200 million electric distribution rate reductions over the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2005 (approximately $40 million in 2005) related to the PAPUCs approval of the merger between PECO and ComEd. On January 1, 2007, a scheduled electric generation rate increase took effect, which represents the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase will not affect operating income as PECO will incur corresponding and offsetting purchased power expenses under its PPA with Generation. The increase in gas revenues was due to higher market prices for gas on which the PAPUC approved rates, which are adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas adjustment clause, are based. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was 30% higher than the average rate for the same period in 2005. While PECOs average purchased gas cost rate was higher in 2006 compared to 2005, quarterly changes to purchased gas cost rates since March 1, 2006 have resulted in decreases to the rates, with the September 1, 2006 and December 1, 2006 rate decreases resulting in lower rates in 2006 compared to comparable periods in 2005. This trend will continue into the first quarter of 2007, during the peak of PECOs winter heating season, as first quarter of 2007 rates will be significantly lower than first quarter of 2006 rates. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. PECOs purchased power expense increased $87 million corresponding to the increase in electric revenues which was attributable to the scheduled PAPUC 127 Table of Contents approved generation rate increase. In addition, PECOs purchased power expense increased $7 million due to a change in the mix of average pricing related to its PPA with Generation. Fuel expense for gas increased due to higher average gas prices. Unbilled revenue change in estimate Revenues. In 2006, PECO recorded a $35 million increase to unbilled electric revenues associated with a change in estimate in the amount of revenue recognized, although unbilled, at the end of 2006. As discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, the nature of the unbilled revenue calculation is inherently an estimation process. As a result of Exelons integration efforts associated with its then pending merger with PSEG and PECOs implementation of a new customer information management system in 2006, PECO received new information with which to better analyze the data underlying its unbilled revenue calculation. This amount is partially offset by a $14 million increase in purchased power expense as noted below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. In 2006, PECO recorded a $14 million increase to purchased power associated with a change in estimate for unbilled electric revenue as the energy component of the estimate change is passed onto Generation. Volume Revenues. The increase in electric revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was primarily due to an increased number of customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. The decrease in gas revenues attributable to lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, was primarily due to an increased number of customers. The decrease in gas fuel expense attributable to volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, was primarily due to decreased customer usage, which is consistent with rising gas prices. Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. For 2006 and 2005, 2% and 5%, respectively, of energy delivered to PECOs retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2006 2005 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 34,400 44,500 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 3 % Volume (GWhs) (a) 767 2,094 Percentage of total retail deliveries 2 % 5 % (a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh). 128 Table of Contents The increase in electric retail revenue associated with customer choice reflected customers from all customer classes returning to PECO as their electric supplier as a result of rising wholesale energy prices and a number of competitive electric generation suppliers exiting the market during 2005 and 2006. Weather Revenues. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating and cooling degree days were 18% and 15% lower, respectively, than the prior year. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was primarily due to lower demand as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. PJM Transmission Revenues. The increase in PJM transmission revenues reflected increased peak demand and consumption by PECO supplied customers due to load growth as well as an increase in PECO supplied customers driven by more customers choosing PECO for supply due to competitive electric generation suppliers higher market prices. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in PJM transmission expense reflected increased peak demand and consumption by PECO supplied customers due to load growth as well as an increase in PECO supplied customers driven by more customers choosing PECO for supply due to competitive electric generation suppliers higher market prices. Other rate changes and mix Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues attributable to other rate changes and mix was primarily due to increased large commercial and industrial sales, which are billed at lower rates relative to other customer classes, and lower rates for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were lower in the latter part of 2006 relative to 2005. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power attributable to other rate changes and mix was primarily due to increased large commercial and industrial sales, which are billed at lower rates relative to other customer classes, and lower rates for certain large commercial and industrial customers whose rates reflect wholesale energy prices, which were lower in the latter part of 2006 relative to 2005. Other revenue and expenses Revenues. There was no overall change in electric revenues, although there were increased sales of energy into the PJM spot market, which were completely offset by variances in other revenue categories, none of which were individually material. If PECOs energy needs are less than the daily amount scheduled, the excess is sold into the PJM spot market. Revenues from these sales are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas revenues was due to decreased off system sales. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in electric purchased power expense was primarily due to increased energy purchases in the PJM spot market. If PECOs energy needs are 129 Table of Contents greater than the daily amount scheduled, the shortfall is secured through purchases in the PJM spot market. These additional costs are reflected as adjustments to the billings under PECOs PPA with Generation. The decrease in gas fuel expense was related to decreased off system sales. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Storm costs $ 36 Contractors (a) 14 Allowance for uncollectible accounts (b) 13 Fringe benefits (c) 11 Severance related expenses 6 PSEG merger integration costs 2 Injuries and damages (6 ) Environmental reserve (d) (4 ) Other 7 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 79 (a) Reflects higher professional fees, including $9 million associated with tax consulting, and various other increases. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding tax consulting fees. (b) Reflects the following factors, all of which increased expense in 2006 as compared to 2005: (i) higher average accounts receivable balances in 2006 compared to 2005 resulting from increased revenues; (ii) changes in PAPUC approved regulations related to customer payment terms; and (iii) an increase in the number of low income customers participating in customer assistance programs, which allow for the forgiveness of certain receivables. (c) Reflects increased stock based compensation expense of $11 million primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R on January 1, 2006. (d) Represents a settlement related to one Superfund site in 2006. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) CTC amortization (a) $ 146 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (4 ) Other 2 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 144 (a) PECOs additional amortization of the CTC is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $13 million and $9 million in 2005 and 2006, respectively. The new system was implemented in 2006. 130 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income. The changes in taxes other than income for 2006 compared to 2005 consisted of the following: Increase(decrease) Taxes on utility revenues (a) $ 14 State franchise tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (b) 10 Real estate tax adjustment in 2005 (c) 6 Sales and use tax adjustments in 2006 and 2005 (2 ) Other 3 Increase in taxes other than income $ 31 (a) As these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities and included in revenues and expenses, the increase in tax expense was offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. (b) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 of $7 million following settlements related to prior year tax assessments and the $17 million reduction of an accrual in 2005 related to prior years. (c) Represents the reduction of a real estate tax accrual in 2005 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to scheduled payments on lower long term debt balances owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with the September 2006 issuance of $300 million First Mortgage Bonds, higher interest rates on variable rate long term debt and an increased amount of commercial paper outstanding at higher rates. Other, Net. The increase in other, net for 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to interest income associated with an investment tax credit refund of $11 million and interest income associated with a research and development credit refund of $10 million in 2006. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of other, net. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates. The decrease in equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates was a result of a decrease in net interest expense of PETT due to scheduled repayments of outstanding long term debt. Effective Income Tax Rate. PECOs effective income tax rate was 29.0% for 2006 compared to 32.2% for 2005. The lower effective tax rate in 2006 reflects investment tax credit and research and development credit refunds in 2006. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle reflects the impact of adopting FIN 47 as of December 31, 2005. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN 47. 131 Table of Contents PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs electric sales statistics and revenue detail are as follows: Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential 12,796 13,135 (339 ) (2.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 7,818 7,263 555 7.6 % Large commercial & industrial 15,898 15,205 693 4.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 906 962 (56 ) (5.8 )% Total full service 37,418 36,565 853 2.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 61 334 (273 ) (81.7 )% Small commercial & industrial 671 1,257 (586 ) (46.6 )% Large commercial & industrial 35 503 (468 ) (93.0 )% Total delivery only 767 2,094 (1,327 ) (63.4 )% Total retail deliveries 38,185 38,659 (474 ) (1.2 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers receiving electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Full service (a) Residential $ 1,780 $ 1,705 $ 75 4.4 % Small commercial & industrial 943 818 125 15.3 % Large commercial & industrial 1,286 1,173 113 9.6 % Public authorities & electric railroads 83 84 (1 ) (1.2 )% Total full service 4,092 3,780 312 8.3 % Delivery only (b) Residential 5 25 (20 ) (80.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 36 63 (27 ) (42.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 1 13 (12 ) (92.3 )% Total delivery only 42 101 (59 ) (58.4 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,134 3,881 253 6.5 % Wholesale and miscellaneous revenue (c) 238 212 26 12.3 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,372 $ 4,093 $ 279 6.8 % (a) Full service revenue reflects revenue from customers taking electric service under tariffed rates, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers receiving generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 132 Table of Contents PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales 50,578 59,751 (9,173 ) (15.4 )% Transportation 25,527 25,310 217 0.9 % Total 76,105 85,061 (8,956 ) (10.5 )% Revenue 2006 2005 Variance % Change Retail sales $ 770 $ 783 $ (13 ) (1.7 )% Transportation 16 16 % Resales and other 10 18 (8 ) (44.4 )% Total gas revenue $ 796 $ 817 $ (21 ) (2.6 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. Generation, ComEd and PECO, may also receive capital contributions from Exelon if Exelon determines it is appropriate. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. Exelon, Generation and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs and to issue letters of credit. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had $370 million of credit facility borrowings since its access to the commercial paper market is limited due to its current credit ratings. See the Credit Issues section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating, financing and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, each of Exelons, ComEds and PECOs working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd and PECO intend to refinance maturing debt in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd has the capacity to issue approximately $2.8 billion of first mortgage bonds as a result of replacing its secured credit facility, which contained a restriction on a portion of such bond issuances, with an unsecured credit facility, which does not contain such a restriction. To manage cash flows as more fully described below, ComEd did not pay a dividend during 2006 or 2007. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. During 2007 as compared to 2006, ComEd experienced a decrease in operating cash flows primarily due to a change in its payment terms with energy suppliers resulting from downgraded credit 133 Table of Contents ratings and due to under recovery of energy costs, which have been recognized as a regulatory asset. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which ComEd is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 nor additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generations future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from sales of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas to a stable and diverse base of retail customers and are weighted toward the third quarter of each fiscal year. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows will be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Beginning in 2007, ComEd began purchasing electricity through the ICC authorized reverse auction process in order to meet the retail electricity needs of ComEds customers because ComEd does not own any generation. The Settlement Legislation enacted in August 2007 should provide ComEd with greater stability and certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to its customers and reduce the risk of rate freeze or similar legislation being proposed in the near future. ComEd has implemented various programs to assist its residential customers, including a $64 million rate relief package and other initiatives. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of ComEds procurement case and rate relief efforts. Beginning in 2007, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. These incremental bilateral contracts are subject to the credit risk associated with the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations to Generation. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. When Generation sells power, as market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. To the extent Generation does not have enough collateral to cover its risk of payment collection, Generations revenues are at risk. With respect to Generations sales, when market prices decrease, there is a corresponding increase in Generations revenues at risk. Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, collateral postings are one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, ComEd or 134 Table of Contents Ameren, as the case may be, is not required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation is required to post collateral. To the extent Ameren or ComEd do not or cannot pay Generation under the supplier forward contracts, Generation is therefore exposed. Under the terms of the five year financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, if ComEd achieves an investment grade rating from Moodys Investor Service (Moodys) or Standard & Poors (S&P), and then is later downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from ComEd; conversely, should Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from Generation. Should both ComEd rise above investment grade and then subsequently be downgraded below investment grade and Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be required from either party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. Under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Generations collateral policy. Additionally, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken tax return positions to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. In the third quarter of 2007, Exelon received the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) audit report for the taxable period 1999 through 2001 which reflected the full disallowance of the deferral of gain. Exelon disagrees with the IRSs characterization of this transaction and believes its position is justified. Furthermore, the IRS asserted penalties. In the third quarter of 2007, Exelon appealed the disallowance of the deferral of gain as well as the assertion of the penalties to IRS Appeals. This potential tax obligation is significant and an adverse determination could require a significant payment. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding ComEds tax position on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations: 2007 2006 Variance Net income $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 2,845 3,213 (368 ) Income taxes 160 69 91 Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (1,041 ) 141 (1,182 ) Pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments, net (204 ) (180 ) (24 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 4,496 $ 4,835 $ (339 ) (a) Includes depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, pension and other postretirement benefits expense, other decommissioning related activities, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment charges, pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments and other non cash items. See Note 20 Supplemental Financial Information for additional information on non cash operating activities. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ 4,496 $ 4,835 Generation 2,994 2,550 ComEd 520 987 PECO 980 1,017 135 Table of Contents Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in the respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $50 million to the Exelon Foundation, a nonconsolidated not for profit Illinois corporation. The Exelon Foundation was established in the fourth quarter of 2007 to serve educational and environmental philanthropic purposes. Generation During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed approximately $408 million in 2007. On October 15, 2007, Generation entered into an agreement (Termination Agreement) with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Dominion Resources Inc. to terminate the Power Purchase Agreement dated as of April 17, 1996 (as amended, the PPA) between State Line and Generation relating to the State Line generating facility in Hammond, Indiana, under which Generation controls 515 MW of electric energy and capacity from the State Line facility. Generation became a party to the PPA and various other related agreements by assignment from ComEd as of January 1, 2001. FERC approved the Termination Agreement on October 18, 2007. Further, the conditions to the effectiveness of the Termination Agreement were subsequently satisfied and Generation received a net cash payment from State Line of approximately $228 million, after adjustments, in consideration for the termination of the PPA and the purchase of coal inventories on hand (and in transit) and other assets. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Generation had accounts receivable from ComEd under its supplier forward agreement and the PPA, which expired on December 31, 2006, of $60 million, $197 million and $242 million, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to lower revenues resulting from the expiration of the PPA with ComEd as well as ComEd making semi monthly payments under its supplier forward contracts in 2007 as opposed to making monthly payments under the PPA in 2006. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Generation had accounts receivable from PECO under the PPA of $121 million, $153 million and $151 million, respectively. During 2007, Generation had net disbursements of counterparty collateral of $(518) million compared to $431 million of net collections of counterparty collateral in 2006. The decrease in cash flows was primarily due to changes in collateral requirements resulting from changes in market prices and increased activity within exchange based markets for energy and fossil fuel. During 2007, Generation had net receipts of approximately $28 million and during 2006 had net payments of $220 million related to option premiums, primarily due to lower activity in 2006 compared to 2007 due to changes in market prices. During 2005, Exelon received a $102 million Federal income tax refund for capital losses generated in 2003 related to Generations investment in Sithe, which were carried back to prior periods. In the first quarter of 2006, Exelon remitted a $98 million payment to the IRS in connection with the settlement of the IRSs challenge of the timing of the above described 136 Table of Contents deduction. This payment included $6 million of interest which was recognized as interest expense in the first quarter of 2006. Exelon received approximately $92 million on December 13, 2006 related to this same deduction in connection with the filing of its 2005 tax return. ComEd As a result of downgraded credit ratings in early 2007, ComEd is making accelerated semi monthly payments under its supplier forward contracts with its energy suppliers, including Generation. Prior to the credit ratings downgrade, ComEd made monthly payments to its energy suppliers. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, ComEd had accrued payments to Generation for energy purchases of $60 million, $197 million, and $242 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, ComEd had accrued payments to other energy suppliers of $82 million, $10 million, and $12 respectively. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had net under recovered energy costs of $97 million. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. During 2007, ComEds revenue exceeded its cash collections from customers by $103 million. During 2006, ComEds cash collections exceeded its revenue from customers by $6 million. As part of its rate relief programs, at December 31, 2007, ComEd had $13 million deposited in an escrow account classified as restricted cash. As ComEd issues credits to customers and funds various customer programs, ComEd will request reimbursements from the escrow account. As part of the Settlement and its rate relief programs, ComEd contributed approximately $41 million to rate relief programs in 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the rate relief programs. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ (2,909 ) $ (2,762 ) Generation (1,424 ) (1,406 ) ComEd (1,015 ) (894 ) PECO (337 ) (332 ) Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2007 and projected amounts for 2008 are as follows: 2007 2008 Generation (a) $ 1,269 $ 1,599 ComEd 1,040 1,003 PECO 339 394 Other (b) 26 122 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 2,674 $ 3,118 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Projected capital expenditures and other investments by the Registrants are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. 137 Table of Contents Generation. Generations capital expenditures for 2007 reflected additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages) and nuclear fuel. Generation anticipates that its capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. ComEd and PECO. ComEd and PECO are continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that their capital expenditures will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings and the issuance of debt or preferred securities. Other significant investing activities for Exelon, Generation, and PECO for 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $93 million and $92 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Generation During 2007, Generation received approximately $42 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to its retired units. On February 9, 2007, Tamuin International Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Generation, sold its 49.5% ownership interests in TEG and TEP to a subsidiary of AES Corporation for $95 million in cash plus certain purchase price adjustments. On March 31, 2006, Generation entered into an agreement to accelerate the acquisition of Peoples Calumets 30% interest in SCEP. Prior to this agreement, Generation was obligated to purchase Peoples Calumets 30% interest ratably over a 20 year period. This transaction closed on May 31, 2006. Under the agreement, Generation paid Peoples Calumet approximately $47 million for its remaining interest in SCEP. Generation financed this transaction using short term debt and available cash. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ (1,500 ) $ (1,989 ) Generation (1,571 ) (1,050 ) ComEd 547 (96 ) PECO (638 ) (693 ) 138 Table of Contents Debt. Debt activity for 2007 and 2006 by registrant was as follows: Company Issuance of long term debt in 2007 Use of proceeds Generation $700 million of 6.20% Senior Notes, due October 1, 2017 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. Generation $46 million of Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 Will be used to finance a portion of the construction and installation costs of emissions control facilities at Keystone Generating Station ComEd Additional $300 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to refinance outstanding commercial paper and to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility. ComEd $425 million of First Mortgage 6.15% Bonds, Series 106, due September 15, 2017 Used to repay borrowings made under its revolving credit agreement. PECO $175 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.70% Series due March 15, 2037 Used to supplement working capital previously financed through sales of commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. Company Issuance of long term debt in 2006 Use of proceeds ComEd $325 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to supplement working capital previously used to refinance amounts that ComEd used to repay bonds and notes. ComEd $300 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd Additional $115 million of First Mortgage 5.95% Bonds, Series 104, due August 15, 2016 Used to repay bonds at maturity. ComEd $345 million of First Mortgage 5.40% Bonds, Series 105, due December 15, 2011 Used to repay borrowings under ComEds revolving credit agreement which had been used to repay bonds and to refinance notes. PECO $300 million of First Mortgage Bonds 5.95% Series, due October 1, 2036 Used to repay commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. On January 16, 2008, ComEd issued $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038. The proceeds were used to refinance maturing First Mortgage Bonds and will be used for the early redemption of trust preferred securities. 139 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2007 Exelon $88 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 ComEd $145 million of 7.625% note payable, due January 15, 2007 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $17 million of variable rate special agreement accounts receivable, due November 2010 ComEd $138 million of 5.63% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due June 25, 2007 (a)(b) ComEd $236 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 PECO $641 million of 6.13% PETT, due September 1, 2008 PECO $30 million of 7.625% PETT, due March 1, 2009 (a) Amount includes $17 million previously reflected in prepaid interest. This amount did not impact ComEds Consolidated Statement of Operations or ComEds Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. (b) ComEd applied $8 million of previously prepaid balances against the long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust. Company Retirement of long term debt in 2006 Exelon $50 million of 6.00 800% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 ComEd $199 million of 4.40% Pollution Control Revenue Bonds, due December 1, 2006 ComEd $95 million of 8.25% First Mortgage Bonds, due October 1, 2006 ComEd $31 million of 8.375% First Mortgage Bonds, due October 15, 2006 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates ComEd $339 million of 5.63% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due June 25, 2007 PECO $522 million of 6.05% PETT, due March 1, 2007 PECO $49 million of 6.13% PETT, due September 1, 2008 Other $15 million of various other debt agreements See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Registrants debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: 2007 2006 Exelon $ 1,180 $ 1,071 Generation 2,357 609 PECO 566 506 Exelon paid dividends of $296 million, $296 million, $297 million, and $291 million on March 10, 2007, June 11, 2007, September 10, 2007 and December 10, 2007, respectively, to shareholders of 140 Table of Contents record at the close of business on February 15, 2007, May 15, 2007, August 15, 2007 and November 15, 2007, respectively. On December 19, 2007, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 15, 2008. Exelon paid dividends of $267 million, $268 million, $268 million and $268 million on March 10, 2006, June 12, 2006, September 11, 2006 and December 11, 2006, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2006, May 15, 2006, August 15, 2006 and November 15, 2006, respectively. See Dividends section of ITEM 5 for a further discussion of Exelons dividend policy. During 2007 and 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. The decision by the ComEd Board of Directors not to declare a dividend was the result of several factors, including ComEds need for a rate increase to cover existing costs and anticipated levels of future capital expenditures as well as the continued uncertainty related to ComEds regulatory filings as discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds Board of Directors will assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend after 2007. Share Repurchases. Exelons Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on August 31, 2007 in connection with Exelons value return policy. This policy uses share repurchases from time to time to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. On September 4, 2007, Exelon entered into agreements with two investment banks to repurchase a total of $1.25 billion of Exelons common shares under an accelerated share repurchase arrangement. In September 2007, Exelon received 15.1 million shares in accordance with the accelerated share repurchase agreements, which were recorded as treasury stock, at cost, for $1.17 billion. In 2007, Exelon purchased $1.2 billion of treasury shares under Exelons 2007 share repurchase program. Additionally, in connection with the accelerated share repurchase program, Exelon purchased a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock of $79 million during 2007. In 2006, Exelon purchased $186 million of treasury shares under Exelons 2004 share repurchase plan. On December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500 million of Exelons outstanding common stock. See Note 17 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons share repurchases. Intercompany Money Pool. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool did not change during 2007 and decreased $92 million during 2006. During 2006, ComEd repaid $140 million that it had borrowed from the Exelon intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd suspended participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon intercompany money pool decreased $45 million and increased $45 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Short Term Borrowings. During 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO (repaid) issued $(59) million, $(60) million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2006, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO repaid $685 million, $311 million, $399 million and $125 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. At December 31, 2007, Exelon and ComEd had $370 million of outstanding borrowings under ComEds credit agreement. In 2006, Exelon terminated its $300 million term loan agreement. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 141 Table of Contents Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 2006 Exelon $ 1,020 $ 910 ComEd 349 339 PECO 671 571 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2007 2006 Generation $ 54 $ 25 ComEd 28 37 PECO 338 181 Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $215 million and $184 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Exelons other financing activities reflects $97 million and $60 million of excess tax benefits during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Credit Issues Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon, Generation and PECO meet their short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through borrowings from its credit facility. The Registrants may use credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including meeting short term funding requirements and the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2007, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively. In September 2007, Exelon, Generation, and PECO received consent from 26 of 28 of their lenders to extend the terms of their respective credit agreements by one year, representing $6.3 billion of the $6.6 billion of original commitments. The extension took effect on October 26, 2007 and extended the termination date of the credit agreements to October 26, 2012. These revolving credit agreements are used principally to support the commercial paper programs at the Registrants and to issue letters of credit. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants credit facilities. 142 Table of Contents At December 31, 2007, the Registrants had the following aggregate bank commitments and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower AggregateBankCommitment (a) AvailableCapacity (b) OutstandingCommercial Paper Exelon Corporate $ 1,000 $ 993 $ Generation 5,000 4,866 ComEd 1,000 586 PECO 600 598 246 (a) Represents the total bank commitments to the borrower under credit agreements to which the borrower is a party. (b) Available capacity represents the unused bank commitments under the borrowers credit agreements net of outstanding letters of credit. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit agreements. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 162.5 basis points for the unsecured facility. The average interest rates on short term debt (facility borrowings and commercial paper) for 2007 for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO were approximately 5.55%, 5.51%, 6.01% and 5.09%, respectively. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and interest on nonrecourse debt. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the year ended December 31, 2007: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2007, the Registrants were in compliance with the foregoing thresholds. Capital Structure. At December 31, 2007, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 44 % 37 % 36 % 28 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 11 5 33 Common equity 43 56 34 Members equity 63 Preferred securities 1 Commercial paper and notes payable 2 3 4 (a) As of December 31, 2007, PECOs capital structure, excluding the deduction from shareholders equity of the $784 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table, but is excluded from the percentages in this footnote), consisted of 42% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 4% notes payable and 53% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. 143 Table of Contents (b) Includes $2.5 billion, $0.6 billion and $1.9 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purpose of issuing debt obligations to securitize intangible transition property consisting of CTCs of ComEd and PECO or mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding FIN 46 R. Subprime Credit Crisis Due to recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets, the fair value of subprime related investments have declined. This decline in fair value has become especially problematic for certain large financial institutions. Therefore, the Registrants performed an assessment of their ability to obtain financing and concluded that they expect to have access to liquidity in the capital markets at reasonable rates. In addition, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion, $5 billion, $1 billion and $600 million, respectively, which are not restricted upon general market conditions. Exelon and Generation have also performed an assessment of their investments held in trusts, which will be used by Exelon to satisfy future obligations under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans and by Generation to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants. Exelon and Generation have determined that a decline in the fair value of the subprime related investments is not expected to be material. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd and PECO had $343 million and $154 million respectively of tax exempt long term debt that is insured by AAA rated bond insurers, namely Ambac Assurance Corporation, Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. and XL Capital Assurance Inc. Due to the exposure that these bond insurers have in connection with recent developments in the subprime credit market, the rating agencies have put these insurers on review for possible downgrade. Fitch has since lowered the credit ratings of Ambac Assurance Corporation from AAA to AA, Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. from AAA to AA, and XL Capital Assurance Inc. from AAA to A. The ComEd and PECO bonds are sold at auction rates that are reset every 7 or 35 days. If there is a loss of confidence in the creditworthiness of the bond insurers, ComEd and PECO could experience a loss in liquidity in the markets for their insured bonds. The instruments under which the bonds are issued allow ComEd and PECO to convert to other short term variable rate structures, term put structures and fixed rate structures. As of December 31, 2007, Generation had $566 million in tax exempt long term debt outstanding in the commercial paper, weekly and daily reset structures, of which $520 million is backed by letters of credit and $46 million is unenhanced. Generation does not have any bonds insured by the aforementioned AAA rated bond insurers. 144 Table of Contents Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. Participation in the intercompany money pool is subject to authorization by Exelons treasurer. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2007 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2007: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2007Contributed (Borrowed) Generation $ 314 $ 127 $ PECO 60 222 BSC 87 165 (9 ) Exelon 113 9 Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2007: Securities Moodys InvestorsService Standard & PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB+ BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Ba1 B+ BBB Senior secured debt Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper Not prime B B Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F2 Transition bonds (b) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, an unconsolidated affiliate of ComEd. (b) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On March 9, 2007, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) downgraded the debt ratings of ComEds senior secured debt (from BBB+ to BBB), senior unsecured debt (from BBB to BB+) and commercial paper (from F2 to B) due to Fitchs concerns regarding the continued legislative efforts to freeze rates and the prospects for adequate and timely cost recovery through future rate increases. On June 12, 2007, Fitch downgraded PECOs commercial paper rating from F1 to F2. According to Fitch, the ratings do not reflect any deterioration of PECOs liquidity profile; rather, they reflect a change to Fitchs short term and long term rating linkage practices. On August 1, 2007, Fitch placed ComEds ratings under Ratings Watch Positive following the Illinois House and Senate approval of the Settlement Legislation. 145 Table of Contents On August 29, 2007, Fitch removed ComEds ratings under Ratings Watch Positive and upgraded ComEds senior unsecured debt ratings from BB+ to BBB after the Governor signed the Settlement Legislation. On March 26, 2007, Moodys downgraded ComEds senior unsecured debt (from Baa3 to Ba1) and commercial paper (from Prime 3 to Not Prime) due to continued regulatory and political uncertainty in Illinois. On August 29, 2007, Moodys removed ComEds ratings from review for possible downgrade and affirmed its current ratings. ComEds rating outlook from Moodys is stable. On September 21, 2007, Moodys upgraded Exelons and Generations issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings. Exelons issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings were upgraded from Baa2 to Baa1. Generations issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings were upgraded from Baa1 to A3. Exelons and Generations ratings outlooks are stable. On June 1, 2007, S&P downgraded ComEds short term and long term security ratings due to the continued regulatory and political uncertainty encountered by ComEd. ComEds commercial paper rating was downgraded to B from A 3, its senior secured debt rating was downgraded to BBB from BBB and its senior unsecured debt rating was downgraded to B from BB+. On August 29, 2007, S&P removed the Registrants ratings from CreditWatch with negative implications and affirmed their ratings. ComEds rating outlook from S&P is positive. Exelons, Generations and PECOs ratings outlooks are stable. On September 6, 2007, S&P revised its methodology for rating secured debt and upgraded ComEds (from BBB to BBB) and PECOs (from A to A) senior secured debt ratings. None of the Registrants borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under the Registrants credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if Exelon or Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on its net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of Exelon or Generations situation at the time of the demand. If Exelon can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2007, the Registrants had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. 146 Table of Contents Regulatory Restrictions The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd had $427 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $303 million in new money long term debt financing authority, of which ComEd used $427 million and $23 million, respectively, in January 2008. In December 2007, ComEd filed for an additional $700 million in new money long term debt financing authority from the ICC and expects to receive an order related to this filing during the first quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2007, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and Generations financings. In September 2007, ComEd and PECO filed requests with FERC for short term financing authority in the amounts of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The requested authorizations were approved on December 4, 2007 and expire on December 31, 2009; they replaced the authorizations that were set to expire on December 31, 2007. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC with its market based rate authority. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2006 and 2007, ComEd did not pay any dividend. At December 31, 2007, Exelon had retained earnings of $4.9 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $1,429 million, ComEds retained deficit of $(29) million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $(1,639) million partially offset by $1,610 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends, and PECOs retained earnings of $548 million. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owns interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that own synthetic fuel producing facilities. Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45K contains a provision under which the tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. The following table (in dollars) provides the estimated phase out range for 2007: 2007 Beginning of Phase Out Range (a) $ 57 End of Phase Out Range (a) 71 2007 Estimated Average U.S. Crude Oil Wellhead Acquisition Price by First Purchasers 66 (a) The estimated 2007 phase out range is based upon the range stated in the Section 45K of the IRC adjusted for an approximate 3% increase for inflation. 147 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2007, Exelon has estimated the 2007 phase out to be 68%, which has reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $251 million to $81 million for 2007. Exelon anticipates that it will generate approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments. As a result of the phase out of tax credits in 2007 and the timing of the realization of tax benefits earned in prior years, Exelon will collect approximately $200 million of cash in 2008. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 10,510 $ 603 $ 639 $ 2,626 $ 6,642 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 2,551 501 1,505 545 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 6,030 549 1,062 826 3,593 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 1,089 169 173 76 671 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 504 504 Capital leases 43 2 4 4 33 Operating leases 796 75 133 124 464 Purchase power obligations (c) 4,237 808 663 711 2,055 Fuel purchase agreements 5,333 1,090 1,851 1,340 1,052 Other purchase obligations (c)(d) 857 236 296 215 110 Chicago agreement 2003 (e) 30 6 12 12 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 997 997 Pension minimum funding requirement (f) 353 63 158 132 Other postretirement benefits minimum funding requirement (g) 229 47 97 85 Total contractual obligations $ 33,559 $ 4,149 $ 6,593 $ 6,151 $ 16,162 $ 504 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. (b) As of December 31, 2007, Exelons FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $460 million and $44 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2007. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Does not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (f) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Pension Protection Act of 2006. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2012 are currently not available. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary based upon the status of the plans. (g) These amounts represent PECOs estimated minimum other postretirement benefit contributions required under a PAPUC rate order to fund the cost of a regulated entity under SFAS No. 106. These minimum contributions represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2012 are currently not available. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary based upon the status of the plans. 148 Table of Contents Exelons commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 225 $ 225 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 15 15 Surety bonds (c) 109 31 78 Performance guarantees (d) 303 1 3 3 296 Energy marketing contract guarantees (e) 272 242 25 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (f) 1,710 1,710 Lease guarantees (g) 141 4 137 Chicago agreement 2007 (h) 32 18 11 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (i) 18 4 8 6 Exelon New England guarantees (j) 63 1 2 2 58 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (k) 439 290 125 24 Construction commitments (l) 219 51 104 64 Total commitments $ 3,546 $ 863 $ 272 $ 127 $ 2,284 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2007, Exelon had $143 million of outstanding letters of credit (non debt) issued under its $6.6 billion credit agreements. Guarantees of $15 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $520 million is reflected in long term debt in Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (d) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (e) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (f) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (g) Lease guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure payments on building leases. (h) Chicago agreement 2007 In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $23 million was paid in December 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the City of Chicago Settlement. (i) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago (Chicago) entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, $2 million is included as a liability on Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007. (j) Exelon New England guarantees Mystic Development LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, approximately $12 million and $1 million are included as a noncurrent liability and current liability, respectively, within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Other guarantees associated with Exelon New England included in current liabilities total less than $1 million. (k) See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (l) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds and PECOs construction commitments. 149 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment Due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 2,485 $ 10 $ 9 $ 700 $ 1,766 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,199 139 277 224 559 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 38 38 Capital leases 43 2 4 4 33 Operating leases 474 29 51 48 346 Purchase power obligations (c) 4,237 808 663 711 2,055 Fuel purchase agreements 4,818 916 1,667 1,241 994 Other purchase commitments (d) 583 119 210 175 79 Pension minimum funding requirement (e) 65 16 30 19 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 997 997 Total contractual obligations $ 14,939 $ 2,039 $ 2,911 $ 3,122 $ 6,829 $ 38 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. (b) As of December 31, 2007, Generations FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $16 million and $22 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2007. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) These amounts represent Generations estimated minimum pension contributions required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2012 are currently not available. Generation may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary based upon the status of the plans. Generations commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a)(b) $ 142 $ 142 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (c) 15 15 Surety bonds (d) 3 3 Performance guarantees (e) 303 1 3 3 296 Energy marketing contract guarantees (f) 272 242 25 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (g) 1,710 1,710 Exelon New England guarantees (h) 63 1 2 2 58 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (i) 416 277 115 24 Other 6 6 Total commitments $ 2,930 $ 672 $ 135 $ 54 $ 2,069 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. Guarantees of $11 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. 150 Table of Contents (b) The amount includes letters of credit that are posted to ComEd related to the Illinois procurement auction. (c) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $520 million is reflected in long term debt in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (f) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (h) Exelon New England guarantees Mystic Development LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, approximately $12 million and $1 million are included as a noncurrent liability and current liability, respectively, within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Other guarantees associated with Exelon New England included in current liabilities total less than $1 million. (i) See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on Generations rate relief commitments. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, has a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas are indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England has guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $13 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. The terms of the guarantee do not limit the potential future payments that Exelon New England could be required to make under the guarantee. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Based on estimates of decommissioning costs for each of the nuclear facilities in which Generation has an ownership interest, the ICC permitted ComEd through December 31, 2006, and the PAPUC permits PECO, to collect from their customers and deposit in nuclear decommissioning trust funds maintained by Generation amounts which, together with earnings thereon, will be used to decommission such nuclear facilities. Generation also maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds for each of the AmerGen units. At December 31, 2007, the asset retirement obligation recorded within Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets related to its nuclear fueled generating facilities was approximately $3.6 billion. Decommissioning expenditures are expected to occur primarily after the plants are retired. Following the completion of decommissioning activities, any excess nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to the former ComEd and PECO nuclear power plants will be required to be refunded to ComEd or PECO, as appropriate. To fund future decommissioning costs, Generation held approximately $6.8 billion of investments in trust funds, including unrealized gains at December 31, 2007. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Generations decommissioning obligation. 151 Table of Contents ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Payment due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 4,175 $ 122 $ 230 $ 797 $ 3,026 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 635 274 361 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,552 221 428 370 1,533 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 595 35 52 52 456 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 491 491 Operating leases 128 21 34 30 43 Other purchase commitments (c) 57 40 14 3 Chicago agreement 2003 (d) 30 6 12 12 Total contractual obligations $ 8,663 $ 719 $ 770 $ 1,264 $ 5,419 $ 491 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2007, ComEds FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $403 million and $88 million, respectively. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. Other purchase commitments do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds supplier forward contracts. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with Chicago and with Midwest Generation (Midwest Agreement). Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. ComEds commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 44 $ 44 $ $ $ Chicago agreement 2007 (b) 32 18 11 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (c) 18 4 8 6 Surety bonds (d) 2 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (e) 23 13 10 Construction commitments (f) 82 31 20 31 Other 5 5 Total commitments $ 206 $ 117 $ 49 $ 40 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Chicago agreement 2007 In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $23 million was paid in December 2007. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the City of Chicago Settlement. (c) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that 152 Table of Contents Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), $2 million is included as a liability on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2007. (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) See Notes 4 and 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds rate relief commitments. (f) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on ComEds construction commitments. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment due within Due 2013and beyond AllOther 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Long term debt $ 1,629 $ 450 $ $ 629 $ 550 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 1,917 227 1,506 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,077 70 128 108 771 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 494 134 120 24 216 FIN 48 liability (b) 2 2 Operating leases 129 19 38 38 34 Fuel purchase agreements (c) 515 174 184 99 58 Other purchase commitments (d) 130 31 37 32 30 Total contractual obligations $ 5,893 $ 1,105 $ 2,013 $ 930 $ 1,843 $ 2 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2007, PECOs FIN 48 liability was $2 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain FIN 48 liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECOs commitments as of December 31, 2007, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 31 $ 31 $ $ $ Surety bonds (b) 25 25 Construction commitments (c) 137 20 84 33 Other 2 2 Total commitments $ 195 $ 78 $ 84 $ 33 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) PECO maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (c) See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on PECOs construction commitments. 153 Table of Contents For additional information about: commercial paper, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FIN 48 liabilities, see Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel obligations, see Notes 13 and 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Variable Interest Entities Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. The financing trusts of ComEd, namely ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, and the financing trusts of PECO, namely PECO Trust III, PECO Trust IV and PETT, are not consolidated in Exelons, ComEds and PECOs financial statements pursuant to the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities and FIN 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46 R). Amounts of $0.6 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust and PETT and long term debt to financing trusts within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it sold an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable through November 2010. At December 31, 2007, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement No. 125, (SFAS No. 140). At December 31, 2006, PECO had sold a $225 million interest in accounts receivable, consisting of a $208 million interest in accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS No. 140, and a $17 million interest in accounts receivable collected through customer payment agreements (special agreement receivables), which was accounted for as a long term note payable. During 2007, the agreement was amended to eliminate special agreement accounts receivable from the eligible receivables sale pool and certain recourse provisions relating to special agreement 154 Table of Contents receivables. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for the sold receivables. The agreement requires PECO to maintain eligible receivables at least equivalent to the $225 million purchased interest. If eligible receivables are below this level, the agreement requires PECO to hold cash in escrow until the requirement is met. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, PECO met this requirement and no cash deposits were required. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. 155 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Corporation The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation has the most exposure to commodity price risk. PECO has transferred most of its commodity price risk to Generation through a PPA that expires at the end of 2010. PECO relies on the PAPUCs purchased gas cost clause to mitigate gas price risk associated with market variability. ComEd has transferred most of its near term commodity price risk to generating companies through the former Illinois auction process and the significant portion of its longer term commodity price risk to Generation through the five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. Furthermore, the Settlement Legislation provides for the pass through of procurement costs by ComEd to its customers. Exelon In 2005, Exelon entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. Including the related mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities increased (reduced) Exelons net income by $87 million, $(24) million and $81 million during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net income or net losses from interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities are reflected in Exelons Consolidated Statements of Operations within income taxes, operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates and other, net. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to consolidated Financial Statements for further information in regards to synthetic fuel activity. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Non trading derivative contracts may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of qualifying hedge contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and they are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case the effective portion of those changes are recorded in OCI, and subsequently are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that 156 Table of Contents do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation has hedges in place for 2008 and 2009 and, with the ComEd financial swap contract, also for 2010 into 2013. Generation has estimated a greater than 90% economic and cash flow hedge ratio for 2008, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This economic hedge ratio represents the percentage of its forecasted aggregate annual economic generation supply that is committed to firm sales, including sales to ComEds and PECOs retail load. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. A portion of Generations hedge may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a 10% reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity would be a decrease of less than $60 million in net income. This sensitivity assumes that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2007 resulted in a pre tax gain of $42 million, which represented a net unrealized mark to market gain of $34 million and realized gain of $8 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $190,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for year ended December 31, 2007 of $6,298 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Generations trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officer (CCRO). The following table provides detail on changes in Generations mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance 157 Table of Contents sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total (a) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2006 $ (540 ) Total change in fair value during 2006 of contracts recorded in earnings 41 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 66 Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI 146 Effective portion of changes in fair value during 2006 recorded in OCI 789 Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (3 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets at December 31, 2006 499 Total change in fair value during 2007 of contracts recorded in earnings (29 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings (106 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from OCI (15 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value during 2007 recorded in OCI (1,310 ) Purchase/sale/disposal of existing contracts or portfolios subject to mark to market (1 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2007 $ (962 ) (a) Includes $456 million of changes during 2007 in the fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd. The following table details the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2007 and 2006: December 31, 2007 (a) December 31, 2006 Current assets $ 445 $ 1,408 Noncurrent assets 113 171 Total mark to market energy contract assets 558 1,579 Current liabilities (612 ) (1,003 ) Noncurrent liabilities (908 ) (77 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (1,520 ) (1,080 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (962 ) $ 499 (a) Includes the fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd, with current liabilities including $13 million and noncurrent liabilities including $443 million, all related to Generations five year financial swap contract with ComEd. The fair value balances are eliminated upon consolidation. The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets represents contracts for which external valuations are not available, primarily option contracts. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2007 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation holds and sells. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. 158 Table of Contents The following table, which presents maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the table provides the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of Generations total mark to market asset or liability. Second, the table provides the maturity, by year, of Generations net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities within (in millions) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 andBeyond Total FairValue Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a): Actively quoted prices $ (41 ) $ (67 ) $ (9 ) $ $ $ $ (117 ) Prices provided by external sources (132 ) (198 ) (32 ) (2 ) (2 ) (1 ) (367 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods (13 ) (57 ) (103 ) (142 ) (99 ) (42 ) (456 ) Total $ (186 ) $ (322 ) $ (144 ) $ (144 ) $ (101 ) $ (43 ) $ (940 ) Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b): Actively quoted prices $ (10 ) $ (13 ) $ $ (1 ) $ $ $ (24 ) Prices provided by other external sources 44 (3 ) (5 ) 1 37 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (14 ) (21 ) (35 ) Total $ 20 $ (37 ) $ (5 ) $ $ $ $ (22 ) (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. Includes $456 of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in earnings. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Information related to energy merchant activities is presented separately from interest rate hedging activities. Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity, Net of Income Tax (in millions) Power TeamNormal Operations andHedging Activities (a) Interest Rate andOtherHedges Total Cash Flow Hedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2006 $ (314 ) $ (4 ) $ (318 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value 476 1 477 Reclassifications from OCI to net income 88 88 Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2006 250 (3 ) 247 Effective portion of changes in fair value (789 ) 3 (786 ) Reclassifications from OCI to net income (9 ) (9 ) Accumulated OCI derivative gain (loss) at December 31, 2007 $ (548 ) $ $ (548 ) (a) Includes $275 million, net of taxes, of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd. 159 Table of Contents ComEd ComEds energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Derivative contracts may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case changes in fair value are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. With the exception of ComEds financial swap contract with Generation, changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current earnings. Since the financial swap contract was deemed prudent by the Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring ComEd of full cost recovery in rates, the change in the fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction (see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the derivative wholesale contracts of less than $1 million was recorded on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet as a current liability. The following detailed presentation of the energy related derivative activities at ComEd is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys CCRO. The following table provides detail on changes in ComEds mark to market net liability or asset balance sheet position from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from accumulated OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in regulatory assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Total Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at January 1, 2006 $ Total change in fair value during 2006 of contracts recorded in earnings (8 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 3 Changes in fair value recorded in OCI (6 ) Total mark to market energy contract net liabilities at December 31, 2006 $ (11 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in earnings 4 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI 3 Changes in fair value recorded in OCI 4 Changes in fair value energy derivative with Generation recorded in regulatory liabilities 456 Total mark to market energy contract net assets at December 31, 2007 $ 456 160 Table of Contents The following table details the balance sheet classification of ComEds mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31,2007 (a) December 31,2006 Current assets (a) $ 13 $ Noncurrent assets (a) 443 Total mark to market energy contract assets 456 Current liabilities (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 456 $ (11 ) (a) Includes the fair value of energy derivative asset with Generation, with current assets including $13 million and noncurrent assets including $443 million, all related to the ComEds five year financial swap contract with Generation. The fair values in each category reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2007 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of the derivative contracts ComEd holds. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from energy marketing and trading activities and such variations could be material. The following table provides the maturity, by year, of ComEds net assets/liabilities associated with the Generation swap, giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Maturities Within Total FairValue 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Prices based on model or other valuation methods $ 13 $ 57 $ 103 $ 142 $ 99 $ 42 $ 456 Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation Generations PPA with ComEd expired at the end of 2006. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren auctions. Beginning in 2007 and as a result of the auctions, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. Although Settlement Legislation passed in Illinois during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions, Generation is expected to participate in the alternative competitive procurement process and will continue to have credit risk in connection with contracts for sale of electricity resulting from the alternative competitive procurement process. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment; therefore, Generations credit risk profile has changed based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. For additional information on the Illinois auction and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation attempts to enter into enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with its counterparties, which reduces Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. Typically, 161 Table of Contents each enabling agreement is for a specific commodity and so, with respect to each individual counterparty, netting is limited to transactions involving that specific commodity product, except where master netting agreements exist with a counterparty that allows for cross product netting. In addition to payment netting language in the enabling agreement, the credit department establishes credit limits and letter of credit requirements for each counterparty, which are defined in each contract. Counterparty credit limits are based on an internal credit review that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. To the extent that a counterpartys credit limit and letter of credit thresholds are exceeded, the counterparty is required to post collateral with Generation as specified in each enabling agreement. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. See the Collateral section below for additional information. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include sales to Generations affiliates, accounts receivable exposure, or credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs and Independent System Operators (ISOs), which are discussed below. Rating as of December 31, 2007 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 356 $ 31 $ 325 2 $ 141 Non investment grade 22 1 21 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 9 9 Internally rated non investment grade 21 2 19 Total $ 408 $ 34 $ 374 2 $ 141 Rating as of December 31, 2006 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,005 $ 268 $ 737 1 $ 95 Non investment grade 53 9 44 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 10 1 9 Internally rated non investment grade 4 3 1 Total $ 1,072 $ 281 $ 791 1 $ 95 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2007 Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 355 $ 1 $ $ 356 Non investment grade 22 22 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 3 6 9 Internally rated non investment grade 21 21 Total $ 401 $ 7 $ $ 408 162 Table of Contents Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, neither ComEd nor Ameren is required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation may be required to post collateral. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on contracted clearing prices related to the ComEd and Ameren auctions. Under the terms of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, if ComEd achieves investment grade ratings from Moodys or S&P, and then is later downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from ComEd; conversely, should Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be one sided from Generation. Should both ComEd rise above investment grade and then subsequently be downgraded below investment grade and Generation be downgraded below investment grade, collateral postings would be required from either party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. Under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation. At December 31, 2007, there was no collateral required to be posted by Generation to ComEd related to the five year financial swap contract. As of December 31, 2007, Generation had $272 million of collateral deposit payments being held by counterparties and Generation was holding $1 million of collateral deposits received from counterparties. RTOs and ISOs. Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in, all or some of, the following established, real time energy markets that are administered by: PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions 163 Table of Contents be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on Generation, ComEd and PECOs financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will continue to monitor the impact of the power prices on its customer payment practices as it relates to its provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd will continue to monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. The Settlement Legislation (discussed in Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, ComEds ten largest customers represented approximately 2.1% of its electric revenues and PECOs ten largest customers represented approximately 8.3% of its retail electric and gas revenues. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would be subject to credit risk related to the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets included a $553 million net investment in direct financing leases as of December 31, 2007. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $939 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps issued by high credit quality financial institutions. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. 164 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2007, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. As of December 31, 2007, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in $4 million, $2 million, $1 million and $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs, respectively, pre tax earnings. During 2006, ComEd settled its interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges in the aggregate notional amount of $240 million for a cash payment of approximately $1 million. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2007, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the values of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $415 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. Exelon and Generation maintain trust assets associated with defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. Certain investments within the nuclear decommissioning trust funds and pension and other postretirement benefit plans hold underlying securities in subprime mortgage related assets. The fair value of these subprime related investments have declined as a result of recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage related assets. Exelon expects that market conditions will continue to evolve, and that the fair value of Exelons investments, including those that are subprime related, may frequently change. Exelon performed an assessment of its investments and believes that declines in the fair value of its nuclear decommissioning trust funds and pension and other postretirement benefit plans due to its relatively small exposure to subprime assets will not be significant. 165 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility that Generation currently utilizes to support is commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 166 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 167 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2007 compared 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had access to an unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had borrowed $370 million from its unsecured credit facility since its access to the commercial paper market is limited due to its current credit ratings. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, ComEds working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd intends to refinance maturing long term debt in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd has the capacity to issue approximately $2.8 billion of first mortgage bonds as a result of replacing its secured credit facility, which contained a restriction on a portion of such bond issuances, with an unsecured credit facility, which does not contain that restriction. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2006 or 2007. During 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006, ComEd experienced a decrease in operating cash flows primarily due to a change in its payment terms with energy suppliers resulting from downgraded credit ratings and due to under recovery of energy costs, which have been recognized as a regulatory asset. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which ComEd is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 or 168 Table of Contents additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 169 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to an unsecured revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 170 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 171 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operation Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to a revolving credit facility that Generation currently utilizes to support is commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 166 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 167 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2007 compared 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had access to an unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had borrowed $370 million from its unsecured credit facility since its access to the commercial paper market is limited due to its current credit ratings. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, ComEds working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd intends to refinance maturing long term debt in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd has the capacity to issue approximately $2.8 billion of first mortgage bonds as a result of replacing its secured credit facility, which contained a restriction on a portion of such bond issuances, with an unsecured credit facility, which does not contain that restriction. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2006 or 2007. During 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006, ComEd experienced a decrease in operating cash flows primarily due to a change in its payment terms with energy suppliers resulting from downgraded credit ratings and due to under recovery of energy costs, which have been recognized as a regulatory asset. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which ComEd is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 or 168 Table of Contents additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 169 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to an unsecured revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 170 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 171 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2007 compared 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had access to an unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $1 billion. At December 31, 2007, ComEd had borrowed $370 million from its unsecured credit facility since its access to the commercial paper market is limited due to its current credit ratings. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. As a result of these factors, ComEds working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, is in a net deficit position. ComEd intends to refinance maturing long term debt in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, ComEd has the capacity to issue approximately $2.8 billion of first mortgage bonds as a result of replacing its secured credit facility, which contained a restriction on a portion of such bond issuances, with an unsecured credit facility, which does not contain that restriction. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2006 or 2007. During 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006, ComEd experienced a decrease in operating cash flows primarily due to a change in its payment terms with energy suppliers resulting from downgraded credit ratings and due to under recovery of energy costs, which have been recognized as a regulatory asset. Since January 2007, a substantial portion of ComEds revenues represents the recovery of its costs of procuring energy, which ComEd is allowed to pass along to its customers without mark up. While ComEds 2007 results reflect an $83 million annual revenue requirement increase as allowed by the ICC, this revenue requirement increase was based generally on 2004 costs and does not include the impacts of increased operating expenses since 2004 or 168 Table of Contents additional net capital investment since the end of 2005. ComEd filed a new delivery service rate case with the ICC in October 2007 based on a 2006 test year and also filed a transmission rate case with FERC during the first quarter of 2007. Resolution of the transmission rate case in 2007 resulted in an increase in first year annual transmission network service revenue requirement of approximately $93 million. The rate increases were requested to reduce the regulatory lag related to recovery of ComEds costs and returns on its investments. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 169 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to an unsecured revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 170 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 171 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Report. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2006 compared to 2005 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to an unsecured revolving credit facility that PECO currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program. See the Credit Issues section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. 170 Table of Contents Credit Issues A discussion of credit issues pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Issues in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations and off balance sheet obligations is set forth under Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off Balance Sheet Obligations in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 171 Table of Contents 
 
