ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Notes 8 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Dresden Unit 1, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Zion (Zion Station), a two unit nuclear generation station, have ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA) is completed. All of Peach Bottom Unit 1s SNF has been moved off site. SNF at Zion Station is currently stored in on site storage pools. Generations liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Zion Station was $759 million at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, nuclear decommissioning trust funds set aside to pay for these obligations were $995 million. Zion Station Decommissioning. On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement with Energy Solutions, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) for decommissioning of Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and which ceased operation in 1998. If the various closing conditions under the Asset Sale Agreement are satisfied and the transaction is completed, Generation will transfer to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in nuclear decommissioning trusts (approximately $749 million as of December 31, 2008). In consideration for Generations transfer of those assets, 10 ZionSolutions will assume decommissioning and other liabilities associated with Zion Station. For accounting purposes, based on agreements signed to date, the decommissioning funds are expected to continue to be recorded on Generations balance sheet and the transferred decommissioning obligation is expected to be replaced with a payable to ZionSolutions on Generations balance sheet. ZionSolutions will take possession and control of the land associated with Zion Station pursuant to a Lease Agreement with Generation, to be executed at the closing. Under the Lease Agreement, ZionSolutions will commit to complete the required decommissioning work according to an established schedule and will construct a dry cask storage facility on the land for the spent nuclear fuel currently held in spent fuel pools at Zion Station. Rent payable under the Lease Agreement will be $1.00 per year, although the Lease Agreement requires ZionSolutions to pay property taxes associated with Zion Station and penalty rents may accrue if there are unexcused delays in the progress of decommissioning work at Zion Station or the construction of the dry cask spent nuclear fuel storage facility. To reduce any potential risk of default by EnergySolutions or ZionSolutions, EnergySolutions is required to provide a $200 million letter of credit to be used to fund decommissioning costs in case of a shortfall of decommissioning funds following specified failures of performance. EnergySolutions has also provided a performance guarantee and will enter into other agreements that will provide rights and remedies for Generation in the case of other specified events of default, including a special purpose easement for disposal capacity at the EnergySolutions site in Clive, Utah, for all low level waste volume of Zion Station. However, if the resources of EnergySolutions Inc. and its subsidiaries are inadequate to complete required decommissioning work, Generation may be required to complete the work at its own expense. ZionSolutions and Generation will also enter into a Put Option Agreement pursuant to which ZionSolutions will have the option to transfer the remaining Zion Station assets and any associated liabilities back to Generation upon completion of all required decommissioning and other work at Zion Station. The purchase price payable under the Put Option Agreement is $1.00 plus the assumption of associated liabilities. Completion of the transactions contemplated by the Asset Sale Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of a number of closing conditions, including approval of the license transfer from the NRC, which is expected in early 2009. On July 14, 2008, the IRS issued a private letter ruling indicating that the proposed transfer of the decommissioning funds would be treated as non taxable to both Generation and EnergySolutions. Prior to completion of the transaction, EnergySolutions must submit a budget that demonstrates that the required work can be completed on schedule for the amount of funds held in decommissioning trusts. On October 14, 2008, EnergySolutions announced that it intended to defer the transfer of the Zion Station assets until after the financial markets stabilize and EnergySolutions reaffirms that there is sufficient value in the Zion decommissioning trust funds to ensure the success of the Zion early decommissioning project. To date, this continues to be EnergySolutionss intention. Pursuant to their agreement, EnergySolutions and Generation have until December 31, 2009, to close the transaction. Generation believes that accelerated decommissioning will make the land available for other uses earlier than originally thought possible, and can be completed cost effectively for the amounts that were collected from ratepayers and deposited into the nuclear decommissioning trust funds for Zion Station. Fossil and Hydroelectric Facilities Generation operates various fossil and hydroelectric facilities and maintains ownership interests in several other facilities including LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2008 and 2007, electric supply (in GWhs) generated from owned fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities was 6% and 6%, respectively, of Generations total electric supply. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generations electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. 11 Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by FERC. The Muddy Run and Conowingo facilities have licenses that expire in August 2014. Generation is in the process of performing pre application analyses and anticipates filing a Notice of Intent to renew the licenses in 2009 pursuant to FERC regulations. For those plants located within the control areas administered by PJM or the New England control area administered by ISO New England Inc. (ISO NE), notice is required to be provided to PJM or ISO NE, as applicable, before a plant can be retired. Potential New Build. On May 1, 2008, Generation announced that it is actively pursuing the development of a 600 megawatt combined cycle natural gas power plant in Pennsylvania. The new plant would advance Exelons efforts to combat carbon emissions associated with electricity generation. Generation has been looking at several existing plant sites that it owns with access to the transmission lines, water and fuel needed to operate a new power plant. Generation has stated that a final decision on whether to move forward would be made only after it had more certainty around environmental permitting and had performed a more detailed economic review. Generation will continue to study the development of the project but will not make material investments or pursue permits until general market conditions have improved the estimated economic returns of the project. Amounts spent on the project to date, which are not material, have been expensed. Insurance. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. Long Term Contracts In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the following long term contracts in effect as of December 31, 2008: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MWs) Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2013 1,108 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP (a) Franklin, Georgia 2030 942 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Green Country Energy, LLC Jenks, Oklahoma 2022 795 Elwood Energy, LLC Elwood, Illinois 2012 775 Lincoln Generating Facility, LLC Manhattan, Illinois 2011 664 Wolf Hollow Granbury, Texas 2023 350 Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc. East Dundee, Illinois 2009 330 Old Trail Windfarm, LLC McLean, Illinois 2026 198 Others (b) Various 2011 to 2023 491 Total 6,483 (a) Commencing June 1, 2010 and lasting for 20 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 942 MWs of capacity, energy, and ancillary services supplied from its existing long term contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP through a tolling agreement with Georgia Power, a subsidiary of Southern Company. (b) Includes long term capacity contracts with eleven counterparties. 12 Federal Power Act The Federal Power Act gives FERC exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, all public utilities subject to FERCs jurisdiction are required to file rate schedules with FERC with respect to wholesale sales and transmission of electricity. Open Access Transmission tariffs established under FERC regulation give Generation transmission access that enables Generation to participate in competitive wholesale markets. Market Based Rate Matters Generation, ComEd and PECO are public utilities for purposes of the Federal Power Act and are required to obtain FERCs acceptance of rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. Currently, Generation, ComEd and PECO have authority to execute wholesale electricity sales at market based rates. As is customary with market based rate schedules, FERC has reserved the right to suspend market based rate authority on a retroactive basis if it subsequently determines that Generation, ComEd or PECO has violated the terms and conditions of its tariff or the Federal Power Act. FERC is also authorized to order refunds if it finds that the market based rates are not just and reasonable under the Federal Power Act. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding various regulatory filings concerning these matters. For a number of years, regional transmission organizations (RTOs), such as PJM, have been formed in a number of regions to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. The intended benefits of establishing these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market monitoring and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service across several transmission systems. To date, PJM, the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO), ISO NE and Southwest Power Pool, have been approved as RTOs. Because of some states opposition to imposition of centralized energy and capacity markets, FERC is seeking to obtain some of the benefits of RTOs by means of making more effective rules governing open access transmission in regions that do not have RTOs or independent system operators. PJM Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) On August 31, 2005, PJM submitted a proposal to FERC for a new capacity payment construct to replace PJMs then existing capacity obligation rules. The proposal provided for a forward capacity procurement auction to establish capacity and payment obligations using a demand curve and locational deliverability zones for capacity. FERC approved PJMs use of RPM in December 2006. For additional information regarding certain legal challenges to RPM, see Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Marginal Loss Dispatch and Settlement On June 1, 2007, PJM implemented marginal loss dispatch and settlement for its competitive wholesale electric market. Marginal loss dispatch recognizes the varying delivery costs of transmitting electricity from individual generator locations to the places where customers consume the energy. Prior to the implementation of marginal loss dispatch, PJM had used average losses in dispatch and in the calculation of locational marginal prices. Locational marginal prices in PJM now include the real time impact of transmission losses from individual sources to loads. PJM believes that the marginal loss approach is more efficient because the cost of energy that is lost in transmission lines is reduced compared with the former average loss method. As a whole, Generation has experienced an increase 13 in the cost of delivering energy from the generating plant locations to customer load zones due to the implementation of marginal loss dispatch and settlement. Illinois Settlement Agreement In July 2007, following extensive discussions with legislative leaders in Illinois, Generation, ComEd and other generators and utilities in Illinois reached an agreement (Illinois Settlement) with various representatives from the State of Illinois concluding discussions of measures to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois without rate freeze, generation tax or other legislation that Exelon believes would have been harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. Legislation reflecting the Settlement (Settlement Legislation) was passed by the Illinois Legislature on July 26, 2007 and was signed into law on August 28, 2007 by the Governor of Illinois. Generation and ComEd committed to contributing $811 million to rate relief programs over four years. Generation committed an aggregate of $747 million, with $435 million available to pay ComEd for rate relief programs for ComEd customers, $307.5 million available for rate relief programs for customers of other Illinois utilities, and $4.5 million available for partially funding operations of the Illinois Power Agency (IPA). Through December 31, 2008, Generation has recognized net costs from its contributions of $629 million in the Statement of Operations of its total commitment of $747 million. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Illinois Settlement Legislation. Pennsylvania Transition Related Legislative and Regulatory Matters See PECO, Retail Electric Services, Pennsylvania Transition Related Legislative and Regulatory Matters for a discussion of Pennsylvania related matters that could impact Generation in the future. Generations PPA with PECO ends on December 31, 2010, after which PECO will procure its energy through alternative means. Pennsylvania has approved the use of competitive, market based procurement mechanisms for electricity distribution companies, and Generation could have the opportunity to enter into contracts with PECO and other electricity distribution companies that reflect market prices. In addition, with respect to post transition electric generation rate increase mitigation concerns, measures suggested by Pennsylvania officials have included rate cap extensions, rate increase deferrals and phase ins, a generation tax and contributions of value (potentially billions of dollars statewide) by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs. Depending on the legislation ultimately passed, Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. Generation cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWhs for 2008 and estimated for 2009: Source of Electric Supply (a) 2008 2009 (Est.) Nuclear units 139,342 138,897 Purchases non trading portfolio 26,263 31,215 Fossil and hydroelectric units 10,569 11,223 Total supply 176,174 181,335 (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its generating plants. The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its obligations for sales to other utilities, including to ComEd and PECO, and some of Generations retail business requirements. 14 The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2010. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2011. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2010. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2012. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units. Approximately 13% of Generations uranium enrichment services forward commitments are with European suppliers. In January 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission determined that USEC, Inc. was materially injured or threatened with material injury by low enriched uranium exported by European suppliers and as a result, the U.S. Department of Commerce assessed countervailing and anti dumping duties against the European suppliers. Both USEC, Inc. and the European suppliers appealed these decisions. On January 27, 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a ruling regarding the ongoing trade action that permitted the U.S. Department of Commerce to impose anti dumping duties on low enriched uranium from Europe. As a result of these actions, Generation may incur higher costs for uranium enrichment services necessary for the production of nuclear fuel. Coal is procured for coal fired plants primarily through annual supply contracts, with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. Natural gas is procured for gas fired plants through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or natural gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments. Power Team Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity and through long term, intermediate term and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation has also purchased transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs in 15 markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Power Team also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2009 and 2010 and, with the ComEd swap arrangement, also for 2010 into 2013. However, except for the ComEd swap arrangement described below, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk beyond 2010 for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. Generation has estimated greater than 95% and 90% for economic and cash flow hedge ratios for 2009 and 2010, respectively, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This financial hedge ratio is Generations estimate of the gross margin that is hedged given the current assessment of market volatility. A portion of Generations hedge may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk management group and Exelons Risk Management Committee (RMC) monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Power Team also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Power Teams efforts. At December 31, 2008, Generations short and long term commitments relating to the purchase and sale of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power Only Purchases (b) Power OnlySales Transmission RightsPurchases (c) 2009 $ 336 $ 190 $ 2,212 $ 9 2010 322 25 550 9 2011 331 30 163 9 2012 332 64 9 2013 211 31 6 Thereafter 1,791 Total $ 3,323 $ 245 $ 3,020 $ 42 (a) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2008. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are conditional on plant availability. (b) Excludes renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. (c) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. Beginning in January 2007, ComEd began procuring all of its energy requirements for retail customers from market sources pursuant to the ICC approved procurement auction in 2006 or from the PJM administered spot market. In May 2008, approximately one third of the load in the auction contracts that resulted from the 2006 auction expired, another one third of the load will expire in May 2009 with the auction contracts for the final third of the load expiring in May 2010. Approximately 35% of the contracted supply from the 2006 auction was awarded to Generation. Suppliers, including Generation, were limited to winning no more than 35% of the load in either the fixed price section or the hourly price section of the auction. 16 The Illinois Settlement Legislation established a new competitive process for energy procurement to be managed by the IPA, with oversight by the ICC. The IPAs new procurement plan for ComEds procurement of energy beginning in June 2009 was approved by the ICC in January 2009, as discussed below. At present, ComEd is procuring power under an ICC approved plan for the period from June 2008 to May 2009. Under this plan, standard block energy purchases, acquired through an ICC approved Request for Proposal (RFP), coupled with purchases of energy, capacity and ancillary services in PJM administered markets, are used to replace the portion of the auction contracts that expired on May 31, 2008. Generation was awarded a portion of the standard block energy purchase contracts under this plan. In addition, in order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement to mitigate the price risk inherent in this plan, ComEd locked in a portion of the energy price through a five year financial hedge (a financial swap contract) with Generation. See Notes 3 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and ComEds Procurement Related Proceedings as described below for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceeding and the financial swap contract. Generation has a PPA with PECO under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources. Subsequent to 2010, PECO expects to procure all of its electricity from market sources, which could include Generation. See PECO Retail Electric Services, Pennsylvania Transition Related and Regulatory Matters for additional information regarding a PECO regulatory filing in which it proposes to use a competitive, full requirements energy supply procurement process after 2010. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2009 are as follows: (in millions) Production plant $ 1,060 Nuclear fuel (a) 897 Total $ 1,957 (a) Includes Generations share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co owned Salem plant. ComEd ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act and subject to regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEds business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEds business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is also subject to mandatory reliability standards by the NERC, for which Exelon has formed a company wide NERC Reliability Standards Compliance Program. ComEds retail service territory has an area of approximately 11,300 square miles and an estimated population of 8 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 3 million. ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers. 17 ComEds franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEds franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2009 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration. ComEds kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEds highest peak load occurred on August 1, 2006 and was 23,613 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on January 15, 2009 and was 16,328 MWs. Retail Electric Services Electric utility restructuring legislation was adopted in Illinois in December 1997 to permit competition by competitive electric generation suppliers for the supply of retail electricity. Transmission and distribution service was not impacted by the legislation and continues to remain regulated. The restructuring legislation and related regulatory orders allowed customers to choose a competitive electric generation supplier; required rate reductions and imposed freezes or caps on rates during a transition period following the adoption of the legislation; and allowed the collection of competitive transition charges (CTCs) from customers to permit Illinois utilities to recover a portion of the costs that might not otherwise be recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) during the transition period. ComEds transition and rate freeze period ended in January 2007. As of December 31, 2008, several competitive electric generation suppliers have been granted approval by the ICC to serve retail electricity customers in Illinois. There are currently a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternate suppliers. At December 31, 2008, approximately 43,100 retail customers, representing approximately 51% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEds obligation to provide full service electric service including generation service, which is referred to as provider of last resort (POLR) obligations, varies by customer size. ComEds obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kilowatts (kWs) continues for all customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to the utility after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a full service obligation to many of its largest customers with demands of 3 MWs or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. ComEd has full service obligations for customers with demands of 100 400kWs, and 400 kWs and above, through May 2010. Delivery Service Rate Cases. In August 2005, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC to comprehensively review its tariff and to adjust ComEds rates for delivering electricity effective January 2007. During 2006, the ICC issued various orders associated with this case, which resulted in a total annual rate increase of $83 million effective January 2007. ComEd and various other parties have appealed the rate order to the courts, but the appeals are not yet resolved. In October 2007, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC for approval to increase its delivery service revenue requirement by approximately $360 million to reflect increasing operating costs and its continued investment in delivery service assets since rates were last determined. On September 10, 2008, the ICC issued an order in the rate case approving a $274 million increase in the annual revenue 18 requirement, which became effective on September 16, 2008. ComEd and several other parties have filed appeals of the rate order with the courts. The appeals are not expected to be decided prior to the second quarter of 2009. ComEd cannot predict the results of the appeals for either of the Delivery Service Rate Cases. Procurement Related Proceedings. In January 2007, ComEd began procuring electricity under supplier forward contracts with various suppliers, including Generation. The supplier forward contracts resulted from an ICC approved reverse auction competitive bidding process, which permitted ComEd to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers, without markup. The energy price that resulted from the first auction was fixed for each of its staggered terms with the first term extending through May 31, 2008, at which time auction contracts for one third of ComEds load requirement expired. Under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA, under the oversight of the ICC, participates in the design of an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and will administer a competitive process under which ComEd will procure its electricity supply resources for deliveries in the supply period beginning June 2009. Prior to the IPAs initial participation in ComEds procurement design portfolio, on December 19, 2007, the ICC approved a plan under which ComEd is procuring power for the period from June 2008 to May 2009. ComEds purchases acquired through the RFP represent approximately 14% of its expected energy needs from June 2008 through May 2009. Approximately 19% of ComEds expected energy load, which is purchased on the spot market, for the same period, has been hedged with its variable to fixed financial swap with Generation. The ICC approved prices reflected in the compliance tariff filing following the ICCs approval of the recent RFP incorporate the applicable PJM RPM capacity prices. As this RFP related to only a portion of ComEds load requirement beginning in June 2008, the RPM impacts to overall customer electric rates are not significant. However, as ComEds auction contracts expire and a larger portion of power and energy is procured in the future through a RFP procurement process, increases in capacity prices associated with RPM capacity auctions are expected to have a more significant impact on customer electric rates. On January 7, 2009, the ICC approved the IPA plan for ComEds power procurement from June 2009 through May 2010, which includes the remaining supplier forward contracts, standard block energy purchases to be set through an RFP in 2009, spot market purchases hedged with the financial swap with Generation, and any additional spot market purchases needed to service customers. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the regulatory matters. Other. Illinois law provides that an electric utility, such as ComEd, will be liable for actual damages suffered by customers in the event of a continuous electricity outage of four hours or more affecting 30,000 or more customers and provides for reimbursement of governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with any such outage. Recovery of consequential damages is barred and the affected utility may seek relief from these provisions from the ICC when the utility can show that the cause of the outage was unpreventable due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering or third party causes. During the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, ComEd does not believe that it had any outages that triggered the reimbursement requirement. Construction Budget ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJMs regional transmission expansion plan (RTEP) ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds most recently approved budget of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and 19 improvements for 2009 is $1 billion. However, ComEd is currently in the process of reviewing its estimated 2009 capital expenditures, due to recent economic conditions and projected load growth, which may reduce the total capital expenditures. PECO PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PAPUC) as to electric and gas rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECOs operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECOs business. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to mandatory reliability standards by the NERC, for which Exelon has formed a company wide NERC Reliability Standards Compliance Program. PECOs combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 3.9 million. PECO provides electric delivery service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.7 million, including 1.4 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO supplies natural gas service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.3 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 485,000 customers. PECO has the necessary authorizations to furnish regulated electric and natural gas service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECOs authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and or grandfathered rights, which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECOs natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility but PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat. PECOs kWh sales and load of electricity are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECOs highest peak load occurred on August 3, 2006 and was 8,932 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MWs. PECOs gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECOs highest daily gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 million cubic feet (mmcf). Retail Electric Services Electric utility restructuring legislation was adopted in Pennsylvania in December 1996. Pennsylvania permits competition by competitive electric generation suppliers for the supply of retail electricity while transmission and distribution service remains regulated. The legislation and related regulatory orders allow customers to choose a competitive electric generation supplier; required rate reductions and imposed freezes or caps on rates during a transition period following the adoption of the legislation; and authorized the collection of CTCs from customers to recover a portion of the costs that might not otherwise be recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) during the transition period. The PECO transition period ends on December 31, 2010. 20 Under the Pennsylvania Electricity Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act (Competition Act), all of PECOs retail electric customers have the right to choose their generation suppliers. At December 31, 2008, less than 1% of each of PECOs residential and large commercial and industrial loads and 7% of its small commercial and industrial load were purchasing generation service from competitive electric generation suppliers. Customers who purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge and CTC to PECO. In addition to retail competition for generation services, PECOs 1998 settlement of its restructuring case (1998 restructuring settlement) mandated by the Competition Act established caps on generation, transmission and distribution rates. The 1998 restructuring settlement also authorized PECO to recover $5.3 billion of stranded costs and to securitize up to $5 billion of its stranded cost recovery. Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, PECOs electric distribution and transmission rates were capped through June 30, 2005 at the level in effect on December 31, 1996. Electric generation rates, consisting of the charge for stranded cost recovery and a shopping credit or capacity and energy charge, are capped through December 31, 2010. In 2007, the electric generation rate cap increased to $0.0801 per kWh, where it will remain through 2010. The rate caps are subject to limited exceptions, including significant increases in Federal or state taxes or other significant changes in law or regulations that would not allow PECO to earn a fair rate of return. PECOs electric transmission and distribution rates continue in effect until PECO files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust the rates. There are no current proceedings to do so. As a mechanism for utilities to recover allowed stranded costs, the Competition Act provides for the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customers bills. CTCs are assessed to and collected from all retail customers who have been assigned stranded cost responsibility and access the utilitys transmission and distribution systems. As the transition charges are based on access to the utilitys transmission and distribution system, they are assessed regardless of whether the customer purchases electricity from the utility or a competitive electric generation supplier. The Competition Act provides, however, that the utilitys right to collect CTCs is contingent on the continued operation, at reasonable availability levels, of the assets for which the stranded costs were awarded, except where continued operation is no longer cost efficient because of the transition to a competitive market. As mentioned above, PECO has been authorized by the PAPUC to recover stranded costs of $5.3 billion over a twelve year period ending December 31, 2010, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%. At December 31, 2008, the unamortized balance of PECOs stranded costs, or CTC regulatory asset, was approximately $1.7 billion. The following table shows PECOs allowed recovery of stranded costs, and amortization of the associated regulatory asset, for the years 2009 and 2010 as authorized by the PAPUC based on the level of transition charges established in the settlement of PECOs restructuring case and the projected annual retail sales in PECOs service territory. Recovery of CTCs for stranded costs and PECOs allowed return on its recovery of stranded costs are included in revenues. To the extent the actual recoveries of CTCs in any one year differ from the authorized amount set forth below, an annual reconciliation adjustment to the CTC rates is made to increase or decrease the subsequent years collections accordingly, except during 2010, in which the reconciling adjustments are made quarterly or monthly as needed. Year (in millions) EstimatedCTC Revenue Estimated StrandedCost Amortization 2009 $ 924 $ 783 2010 932 883 PECO has a PPA with Generation under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues PECO is authorized to recover from customers as specified by PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement 21 mandated by the Competition Act. Subsequent to 2010, PECO expects to procure all of its supply from market sources, which could include Generation. Pennsylvania Transition Related Legislative and Regulatory Matters. Over the past two years, elected officials in Pennsylvania have worked on developing legislation to address the Governors comprehensive energy plan and concerns of anticipated increases in electric generation rates following the expiration of retail electric generation rate cap transition periods. On July 9, 2008, the Pennsylvania Legislature passed and the Governor signed legislation providing a $650 million fund to support investment in renewable power resources and conservation. The fund will be appropriated from Pennsylvanias General Fund. In October 2008, the Pennsylvania General Assembly passed and the Governor signed Act 129 of 2008 (Act 129) into law. This legislation requires that Pennsylvania electric utility companies meet energy conservation and demand reduction targets, beginning in 2011, to enhance the Commonwealths energy independence and enable programs to help consumers manage their energy use. PECO will be required to transition its electric customers to smart meter technology over a fifteen year period and to make available time of use rates and real time price plans. The legislation allows recovery of costs for each of these programs, subject to approval by the PAPUC. If PECO were to fail to achieve the required reductions in consumption within stated deadlines, PECO would be subject to civil penalties of up to $20 million. Any penalties paid would not be recoverable from ratepayers. Finally, Act 129 provides guidelines associated with electricity procurement that support competitive, market based procurement through auctions, requests for proposal or bilateral agreements with a prudent mix of spot market purchases, short term contracts and long term (more than four years) purchase contracts. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. As a result of Act 129, on November 14, 2008, PECO filed an amended comprehensive Default Service Program and Rate Mitigation Plan with the PAPUC seeking approval to provide default electric service following the expiration of electric generation rate caps on December 31, 2010, which was originally filed on September 10, 2008. The PAPUC will conduct a formal proceeding to give all interested parties the opportunity to examine aspects of the amended filing and make independent recommendations. The process is expected to be completed by July 2009. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Natural Gas PECOs natural gas sales and distribution revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates. During 2008, PECO filed a petition before the PAPUC for a $98 million increase to its distribution revenue to fund critical infrastructure improvement projects that will ensure the safety and reliability of the natural gas delivery system. On October 23, 2008, the PAPUC approved a settlement of a distribution rate increase that provides for an annual revenue increase of $77 million. The approved distribution rate adjustment became effective on January 1, 2009. PECOs natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. Approximately 30% of PECOs current total yearly throughput is provided by natural gas suppliers other than PECO and is related primarily to the supply of PECOs large commercial and industrial customers. Natural gas transportation service provided to customers by PECO remains subject to rate regulation. PECO also provides billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services. PECOs natural gas supply is provided by purchases from a number of suppliers for terms of up to two years. These purchases are primarily delivered under long term firm transportation contracts. 22 PECOs aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 43 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECOs liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 34% of PECOs 2008 2009 heating season planned supplies. Construction Budget PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on RTEP, PECO has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECOs most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2009 is $416 million. However, PECO is currently in the process of reviewing its estimated 2009 capital expenditures, due to recent economic conditions and projected load growth, which may reduce the total capital expenditures. ComEd and PECO Transmission Services ComEd and PECO provide unbundled retail transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERCs open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. Under FERCs Order Nos. 889 and 2004, ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERCs Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the communication of non public information between the transmission owners employees and wholesale merchant employees or the employees of any energy affiliate of the transmission owner. PJM is the independent system operator and the FERC approved RTO for the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day to day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region wide, open access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service. In March 2007, ComEd filed a request with the FERC seeking approval to update its transmission rates and change the manner in which such rates are determined from fixed rates to a formula rate. In June 2007, FERC issued an order that conditionally approved ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate effective as of May 1, 2007. In October 2007, ComEd made a filing with FERC seeking approval of a settlement agreement reached by most active parties and opposed by no party in the transmission rate proceeding. On January 16, 2008, FERC approved the settlement agreement. On May 15, 2008, ComEd filed its first annual formula update filing with FERC, which updates ComEds transmission formula rate to include actual 2007 expenses and capital additions plus forecasted 2008 capital additions. The update resulted in a revenue requirement of $430 million, plus an additional $26 million related to the 2007 true up of actual costs for a total increase of approximately $66 million, which became effective for the period June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2009. In November 2008, FERC accepted the calculation of the new rates with no material changes. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd had a regulatory asset associated with the remaining balance of its 2007 true up and the estimated effect of the 2008 true up to be filed in May 2009. 23 Employees As of December 31, 2008, Exelon and its subsidiaries had approximately 19,610 employees in the following companies, of which approximately 8,780 or 45% are covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs): IBEW Local 15 (a) IBEW Local 614 (b) Other CBAagreements (c) EmployeesCovered by CBA TotalEmployees Generation 1,680 240 1,770 3,690 9,540 ComEd 3,740 3,740 6,000 PECO 1,260 1,260 2,370 Other (d) 90 90 1,700 Total 5,510 1,500 1,770 8,780 19,610 (a) The Generation CBA with IBEW Local 15 has been extended to September 30, 2010. The CBA for ComEd and BSC expired on September 30, 2008. On October 31, 2008, a 5 year agreement was reached for Local 15 represented employees of ComEd and BSC. Additionally, a 3 year contract extension has been reached for Local 15 represented employees of Generation. Both were ratified by Local 15 on December 18, 2008. A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, which was ratified on November 7, 2006, covers approximately 160 employees in ComEds System Services Group and expires on October 1, 2009. (b) Approximately 1,260 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2010. Additionally, Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on February 1, 2011 and covers approximately 240 employees. (c) At December 31, 2008, AmerGen had separate CBAs, which covered an aggregate of approximately 750 employees, for its nuclear facilities. Due to the reorganization of AmerGen in January 2009, the CBAs were transferred to Generation. The Clinton and Oyster Creek CBAs expire on December 15, 2010, and January 31, 2010, respectively. Generation reached a 5 year agreement covering TMI employees that was ratified on November 14, 2008 to extend the contract to 2012. In 2008, Generation hired approximately 1,000 security officers by negotiating 9 CBAs covering 7 unions. The Generation CBA with the LaSalle security officers union, SEIU Local 1, expires in 2013. (d) Other includes shared services employees at Exelon Business Services Company, LLC (BSC). Environmental Regulation General Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by various states and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. Various state environmental protection agencies or boards have jurisdiction over certain activities in states in which Exelon and its subsidiaries do business. State regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. Authority to address environmental matters is the responsibility of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has delegated to its Corporate Governance Committee authority to oversee Exelons policies and practices to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelons climate change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelons comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. In addition, Exelon has a management team to address these matters, including the CEO who also serves as Exelons Chief Environmental Officer; Executive Vice President of Government and Environmental Affairs and Public Policy; Vice President, Environment, Health and Safety; and Director, Climate Strategy and Programs, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd and PECO. Performance for those individuals directly involved in environmental strategy activities is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. 24 Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated. Those permits must be renewed periodically. All of Generations power generation facilities with cooling water systems are subject to these regulations. For all of its generating stations, Generation either has NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits while operating under an administrative extension. In July 2004, the EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act requires that the cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts. The Phase II rule established national performance standards for reducing the impact on aquatic organisms at existing power plants. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit found that a number of significant provisions of the Phase II rule were legally deficient and remanded the rule back to the EPA for revisions. The courts opinion has created significant uncertainty about the specific nature, scope and timing of the final compliance requirements. Upon petition by several industry parties, the U.S. Supreme Court granted review and heard oral arguments on December 2, 2008, with a decision expected in 2009. Until the EPA finalizes the rule on remand (which could take several years), the state permitting agencies will continue the current practice of applying their best professional judgment to address the impact of requirements at plant cooling water intake structures. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail on the impact of this rule to Generation. On December 16, 2005 and February 27, 2006, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (Illinois EPA) issued notices to Generation alleging violations of state groundwater standards as a result of historical discharges of liquid tritium into groundwater from a line at the Braidwood Nuclear Generating Station. On March 16, 2006, the Attorney General of the State of Illinois, and the States Attorney for Will County, Illinois filed a civil enforcement action against Exelon, Generation and ComEd in the Circuit Court of Will County relating to the releases of tritium and alleging that the tritium and other non radioactive wastes discharged from Braidwood are in violation of Braidwoods NPDES permit, the Illinois EPA and regulations of the Illinois Pollution Control Board. Generation believes that appropriate reserves have been recorded for potential fines in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 5. On April 10, 2008, the Illinois EPA issued a notice of violation (NOV) to Generation alleging that the Quad Cities Nuclear Generating Station (Quad Cities) violated state groundwater quality standards for tritium. None of the areas with increased tritium levels is outside the property lines of the plant, and Generation does not believe this matter poses health or safety threats to employees or to the public. Generation has resolved the NOV with the Illinois EPA, with no fines imposed or further response required. Exelon and Generation cannot determine the outcome of the above described environmental matters but believe their ultimate resolution should not, after consideration of reserves established, have a material impact on Exelons or Generations respective results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. Based on the transfer of the power generating facilities from ComEd to Generation, ComEd is not responsible for the above described matters regarding violations of state ground water standards. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. 25 Solid and Hazardous Waste The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These potentially responsible parties (PRPs) can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. MGP Sites MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities. ComEd and PECO have identified former MGP sites for which they may be liable for environmental remediation. ComEd and PECO perform a detailed study of the MGP reserve on an annual basis and believe that appropriate reserves have been recorded. Since ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to the joint settlement of the 2008 gas distribution rate case, are recovering environmental costs of remediation of the MGP sites through provision within customer rates, future estimated recoveries are recorded as a regulatory asset. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Costs of Environmental Remediation At December 31, 2008, Exelon accrued $151 million, consisting of $16 million, $89 million, and $46 million at Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation alternatives. Exelon has recorded a regulatory asset of $121 million, consisting of $80 million and $41 million at ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to the recovery of MGP remediation costs. See Notes 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The amount to be expended in 2009 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation is expected to total approximately $18 million, consisting of $1 million, $13 million and $4 million at Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Cotter Corporation The EPA has advised Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary, that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. On May 29, 2008, the U.S. EPA issued a Record of Decision approving the remediation option submitted 26 by Cotter and the two other PRPs. Generation, which assumed ComEds potential liability, has accrued what it believes to be an adequate amount within the estimated cost range to cover its anticipated share of the liability. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the EPA and the various state environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution, including a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from power plants. Flue gas desulphurization systems (SO2 scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units other than the Keystone Station. Keystone is subject to, and in compliance with, the Acid Rain Program Phase II SO2 and NOx limits of the Amendments, which became effective January 1, 2000. Generation and the other Keystone co owners formally approved a capital plan to install SO2 scrubbers at the station for which Generations share, based on its 20.99% ownership interest, would be approximately $140 million. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, total costs incurred by Generation, including capitalized interest, were $71 million, $27 million, and $4 million respectively. Generation anticipates spending approximately $38 million in 2009 related to this project. The Keystone SO 2 scrubbers are expected to be operational by the end of 2009. In addition, Generation and the other Keystone co owners purchase SO2 emission allowances as part of their compliance strategy to meet Phase II limits. On July 11, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated and remanded to the EPA the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which had been promulgated by the EPA in 2005 to reduce power plant emissions of SO2 and NOx. In response to an EPA petition for re hearing, on December 23, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals (the Court) elected to remand the CAIR to the EPA, without invalidating the entire rulemaking, so that the EPA may remedy CAIRs flaws in accordance with the Courts July 11, 2008 opinion. This decision allows the CAIR to remain in effect until it is replaced by a rule consistent with the Courts July 11 opinion. In its December opinion, the Court elected not to establish a particular schedule for the EPA to revise its rulemaking; however, the Court did indicate that its remand did not represent an indefinite stay of the Courts original opinion and that petitioners retained the right to bring a petition to the Court in the event that the EPA fails to modify its CAIR as directed by the Court. At this time, Exelon is unable to predict the exact timeline or approach that will be utilized by the EPA to revise its CAIR, how long the current CAIR program will remain in effect, or what steps individual states may take in response to the CAIR situation. Generation is currently operating in compliance with the CAIR program and over the years has installed various NOx pollution control devices at a number of its fossil units to reduce NOx emissions. Generations fossil units in the Dallas/Fort Worth area currently operate under more restrictive state and local NOx regulations than the existing CAIR. On February 8, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the Federal Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR), which was a national program established to cap mercury emissions from coal fired generating units starting in 2010, with a second reduction in the mercury emission cap level scheduled for 2018. The result of this decision is that mercury emissions from electric generating stations are subject to the more stringent requirements of maximum achievable control technology applicable to hazardous air pollutants. The U.S. Supreme Court is considering a 27 petition by the Utility Air Regulatory Group to review the U.S. Court of Appeals decision (a similar petition by the EPA is likely to be withdrawn). In 2006, Pennsylvania enacted a state level mercury regulation (PA Mercury Rule) that was more stringent than the vacated Federal CAMR. Under the first phase of the PA Mercury Rule, starting in 2010, pulverized coal units were required to meet either an emission rate of 0.024 lb mercury/GWh or an 80% mercury capture efficiency and comply with a unit level annual mercury emissions limit that must be met by surrendering non tradable mercury allowances. Under the second phase of the PA Mercury Rule, starting in 2015, units were required to meet either a 0.012 lb/GWh emission rate or 90% capture efficiency and a reduced annual emissions limit. Generations compliance plans for Pennsylvania anticipated that a significant portion of its compliance would be achieved via co benefit mercury reductions resulting from existing SO2 scrubber operations at Eddystone and Cromby coal units, as well as the planned SO2 scrubbers being installed at the Keystone units. However, on January 30, 2009, the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania ruled that the PA Mercury Rule is unlawful and invalid and enjoined the state from continued implementation and enforcement of the rule. As such, the nature and extent of regulatory controls on mercury emissions at coal fired power plants will not be determined until the Federal and state regulations are finalized upon the completion of court appeals and any subsequent agency rulemaking. In addition to Federal and state regulatory activities, several legislative proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including generating plants, have been proposed in the United States Congress. For example, several multi pollutant bills have been introduced in past years that would reduce generating plant emissions of NOx, SO2, mercury and carbon dioxide starting in 2010 or shortly thereafter. It is likely that such legislation will be introduced again in the new Congress. At this time, Generation can provide no assurance that new legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, will not have a significant effect on Generations operations and cash flows. On August 6, 2007, ComEd received an NOV, addressed to it and Midwest Generation, LLC (Midwest Generation) from the EPA, alleging that ComEd and Midwest Generation have violated and are continuing to violate several provisions of the Federal Clean Air Act as a result of the modification and or operation of six electric generation stations located in northern Illinois that have been owned and operated by Midwest Generation since 1999. ComEd has been cooperating with the EPA since the time of the initial request for information in 2003. The NOV states that the EPA may issue an order requiring compliance with the relevant Clean Air Act provisions and may seek injunctive relief and or civil penalties. The generating stations that are the subject of the NOV are currently owned and operated by Midwest Generation, which purchased the stations in December 1999 from ComEd. Under the terms of the agreement governing that sale, Midwest Generation and its affiliate, Edison Mission Energy (EME), assumed responsibility for environmental liabilities associated with the ownership, occupancy, use and operation of the stations, including responsibility for compliance of the stations with environmental laws before the purchase of the stations by Midwest Generation. Midwest Generation and EME further agreed to indemnify and hold ComEd and its affiliates harmless from claims, fines, penalties, liabilities and expenses arising from third party claims against ComEd resulting from or arising out of the environmental liabilities assumed by Midwest Generation and EME under the terms of the agreement governing the sale. In connection with Exelons 2001 corporate restructuring, Generation assumed ComEds rights and obligations related to its former generation business. At this time, Exelon, Generation and ComEd are unable to predict the ultimate resolution of the claims alleged in the NOV, the costs that might be incurred by Generation or the amount of indemnity that may be available from Midwest Generation and 28 EME; however Exelon, Generation and ComEd concluded that a loss is not probable or estimable and, accordingly, they have not recorded a reserve for the NOV. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. On January 14, 2009, Generation received an NOV, addressed to it, the other owners of Keystone Generating Station (Keystone) and Reliant Energy Northeast Management Company (the operator of Keystone) from the EPA, alleging past and continuing violations of several provisions of the Federal Clean Air Act as a result of the modification and or operation of Keystone, as well as two other stations currently owned and operated by Reliant Energy in which Generation has no ownership interest. Generation has been cooperating with the EPA since the time of requests for information in 2000, 2001 and 2007. The NOV states that the EPA may issue an order requiring compliance with the relevant Clean Air Act provisions and may seek injunctive relief and or civil penalties, all pursuant to the EPAs enforcement authority under the Clean Air Act. At this time, Exelon and Generation are unable to predict the ultimate resolution of the claims alleged in the NOV or the costs that might be incurred by Generation; however, Exelon and Generation have concluded that a loss is not probable or estimable and, accordingly, have not recorded a reserve for the NOV. Global Climate Change Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a significant contributor to the human caused emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, hydroelectric and landfill gas), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low carbon intensity assets, Generations emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide (CO2) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions from the direct combustion of fossil fuels, primarily at its generating plants; CO2, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO2 representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from Generations combustion of fossil fuels represent approximately 90% of Exelons total GHG emissions; this is also a highly variable component of its GHG emissions to forecast due to the primarily intermediate and peaking profile of Exelons fossil generating fleet. However, only approximately 6% of Exelons total electric supply is provided by its fossil fuel generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the gas pipeline system and the coal piles at its generating plants, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) leakage in its electric operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity in its facilities. Despite its small carbon footprint, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. Physical Risks. Physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of Exelons operations. Exelon is currently evaluating potential physical risk issues to its operations resulting from climate change, as well as potential options to manage those risks. In general, weather patterns and the related impact on electricity and gas usage affect Exelons results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below moderate levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. As a corollary, moderate temperatures in the winter adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Extreme weather conditions may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital expenditures and challenging their ability to meet peak customer 29 demand, thereby causing detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs operations. ComEd and PECO take steps to reduce extreme peak demand by implementing a number of programs, such as demand response and energy efficiency programs that will help to defer the need for additional transmission and distribution investment and support system reliability. In addition, ComEd and PECO analyze and plan using worst case scenarios and incorporate contingencies into their planning for extreme weather conditions. Generations operations are also affected by weather, both in terms of demand for electricity and in operating conditions. The effects of unusually warm or cold weather on Generations results of operations depend on the nature of its market position at the time of the unusual weather. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions while performing analysis and necessary planning for severe weather driven scenarios. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and transmission capacity, limiting Generations ability to source or deliver power to where it is needed. These conditions, which cannot be reliably predicted, may have an adverse effect by requiring Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generation incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. Additionally, Exelon is affected by the occurrence of extreme weather events such as hurricanes and storms in its service territories and throughout the United States. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within Exelons service areas can also directly affect Exelons capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. Finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Exelons continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. Exelon is engaged in several projects to identify opportunities for increasing water use efficiency, reducing water supply vulnerabilities and reducing water supply costs. Climate Change Legislation. Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these programs become effective, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or procure emission allowances or credits. Numerous bills have been introduced in Congress that address climate change from different perspectives, including a cap on carbon emissions with emitters allowed to trade unused emission allowances (cap and trade), a tax on carbon emissions and incentives to develop low carbon technology. In addition to potential Federal legislation to directly regulate GHG emissions, it is possible that Congress may also consider other legislation with perceived GHG reduction benefits such as the establishment of Federal renewable energy portfolio standards (RPS). Exelon supports the enactment, through Federal legislation, of a cap and trade program for GHG emissions that is mandatory, economy wide and designed in a way to limit potential harm to the economy and protect consumers. Exelon believes that any mechanism for allocation of GHG emission allowances should include significant free grants of allowances to electric (and potentially gas) distribution companies to help offset the cost impact of GHG regulation to the end use consumer. Over the last few years, Exelon has worked with other businesses and environmental organizations that participate in the United States Climate Action Partnership to support the development of an integrated 30 package of recommendations for the Federal government to address the climate change issue through Federal legislation, including aggressive emission reduction targets for total U.S. emissions and robust cost containment measures to ensure that program costs are reasonable. In June 2008, the Senate failed to pass the Lieberman Warner Americas Climate Security Act, which would have created an economy wide cap and trade program. The Americas Climate Security Act would reduce emissions by 70% from 2005 levels from covered sources by 2050, create a Carbon Market Efficiency Board to control costs of the program and initially auction 26.5% of the allowances rising to 69.5% in 2031. The bill gives 19% of the allowances to electric generators based on their heat input and 9% of allowances to electric local distribution companies for the benefit of their customers. The allowances to generators phase out to zero by 2031. Multiple bills were introduced in the House of Representatives but no action was taken on any of them either in the Energy and Commerce Committee or by the full House of Representatives. In late 2008, then Chairman Dingell released a discussion draft for cap and trade legislation with Representative Boucher. The discussion draft would reduce emissions by 80% from 2005 levels by 2050. The discussion draft presented four options for how to allocate allowances. President Obama has stated that he favors climate legislation that would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050 and that he prefers that 100% of allowances be auctioned. Legislative efforts in Illinois and Pennsylvania related to climate change have focused primarily on energy efficiency, demand response and renewable energy initiatives. The Illinois Settlement Legislation enacted in 2007 requires electric utilities to use cost effective energy efficiency resources to meet specific incremental annual energy savings goals. The Illinois Settlement Legislation also requires procurement plans of electric utilities in Illinois to include cost effective renewable energy resources that meet a defined portion of total electricity supplied to retail customers. In Pennsylvania, the Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act of 2004 (AEPS Act) mandated that, beginning in 2007 or at the end of an electric distribution companys restructuring period, specified percentages of electric energy sold by the electric distribution company or the electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers must come from alternative energy resources. The Pennsylvania Climate Change Act (PCCA) was also signed into law in July 2008. The PCCA requires, among other things, that a Climate Change Advisory Committee be formed, that a report on the potential impact of climate change in Pennsylvania be developed, that the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PA DEP) develop a GHG inventory for Pennsylvania, that a voluntary GHG registry be identified, and that PA DEP, in consultation with the Climate Change Advisory Committee, develop a Climate Change Action Plan for Pennsylvania to be reviewed with the Pennsylvania General Assembly. In October 2008, Act 129 became effective and requires that Pennsylvania electric utility companies meet energy conservation and demand reduction targets, beginning in 2011, to enhance Pennsylvanias energy independence and enable programs to help consumers manage their energy use. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in the case of Massachusetts v. U. S. Environmental Protection Agency holding that CO2 and other GHG emissions are pollutants subject to regulation under the new motor vehicle provisions of the Clean Air Act. The case was remanded to the EPA for further rulemaking to determine whether GHG emissions may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, or in the alternative provide a reasonable explanation why GHG emissions should not be regulated. Possible outcomes from this decision include regulation of GHG emissions not only from motor vehicles but also from manufacturing plants, including electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, under a new EPA rule and Federal or state legislation. In response to the Supreme Court decision, on July 11, 2008, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPR) and is currently considering public comments made on analyses and policy alternatives regarding GHG effects and regulation under the Clean Air Act. This deferred any regulation of GHGs under the Clean Air Act. The issue of GHG regulation will likely be addressed in the new presidential administration, whether by regulation under the Clean Air Act or by 31 new and comprehensive Federal legislation. Due to the uncertainty as to any of these potential outcomes, Exelon cannot estimate the effect of the decision on its operations and its future competitive position, results of operations, earnings, cash flows and financial position. At a regional level, on August 24, 2005, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI), a cooperative effort by Northeastern and Mid Atlantic states to reduce CO2 emissions, released a program proposal. The RGGI Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is an agreement to stabilize aggregate CO2 emissions from power plants in participating states at current levels from 2009 to 2015. Reductions from current levels would be required to be phased in starting in 2016 such that by 2019 there would be a 10% reduction in participating state power plant CO2 emissions. As of December 31, 2008, states participating in the RGGI MOU include Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island and Vermont. On August 15, 2006, the RGGI model rule was finalized, and RGGI member states that have not already done so are currently in the process of adopting state level rules to implement the program starting in 2009. On September 26, 2008, six of the ten RGGI states participated in the first auction of CO2 allowances under the program. Approximately 12.5 million tons of CO2 allowances were auctioned. Generation owns a small amount of affected peaking and intermediate generating capacity in the RGGI region, including Maine, Massachusetts and New Jersey. On November 15, 2007, six Midwest state Governors (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin) signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Accord (the Accord). Under the Accord, an inter state work group is to be formed to establish a Midwestern GHG Reduction Program that will: (1) establish GHG reduction targets and timeframes consistent with member state targets; (2) develop a market based and multi sector cap and trade program to help achieve GHG reductions; and (3) develop other mechanisms and policies to assist in meeting GHG reduction targets (e.g. a low carbon fuel standard). All undertakings of the Accord are to be completed within 30 months after its effective date, including the development of a proposed cap and trade agreement and model rule within 12 months. At the international level, the United States is currently not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, which is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The United Nations Kyoto Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels during the 2008 2012 time period. At the conclusion of the December 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali, Indonesia, the Bali Action Plan was adopted, which identifies a work group, process and timeline for the consideration of possible post 2012 international actions to further address climate change. The United States is expected to participate in this process. Recommendations will be reviewed at the UNFCCC meeting in 2009. At this time, Exelon is unable to predict the potential impacts of any future mandatory governmental GHG legal or regulatory requirements on its businesses. Exelons Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other virtually non GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelons low carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow as policymakers take action to address global climate change. Despite Exelons low GHG emission intensity and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon announced on May 6, 2005 that it had established a voluntary goal to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. The 8% reduction goal represents a decrease of an estimated 1.3 million metric tons of GHG emissions. Exelon has incorporated recognition of GHG emissions and their potential cost into its business analyses as a means to promote internal investment in activities that produce fewer GHG emissions. Exelon made this pledge under the EPAs Climate Leaders program, a 32 voluntary industry government partnership addressing climate change. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon had achieved its 2008 voluntary GHG reduction goal through its planned GHG management efforts, including the previous closure of older, inefficient fossil fueled power plants, reduced leakage of SF6 and methane, increased use of renewable energy and its energy efficiency initiatives. The cost of achieving the voluntary GHG emissions reduction goal did not have a material effect on Exelons future competitive position, results of operations, earnings, financial position or cash flows. On July 15, 2008, Exelon announced a comprehensive business and environmental plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise wide approach and a host of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelons GHG emissions and that of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets. Exelon 2020 sets a goal for Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020, which is more than Exelons current annual carbon footprint. Through Exelon 2020, Exelon is pursuing three broad strategies: reducing or offsetting its own carbon footprint, helping customers and communities reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low carbon electricity in the marketplace. Initiatives to reduce Exelons own carbon footprint include reducing building energy consumption by 25%, reducing the vehicle fleet emissions, improving the efficiency of the generation and delivery system for electricity and natural gas, and developing an industry leading green supply chain. Plans to help customers reduce their GHG emissions include ComEds new portfolio of energy efficiency programs, a similar portfolio of energy efficiency programs in development at PECO to meet the requirements of the recently enacted PA Act 129, the implementation of smart meters and real time pricing programs and a broad array of communication initiatives to increase customer awareness of approaches to manage their energy consumption. Finally, Exelon will offer more low carbon electricity in the marketplace by increasing its investment in renewable power, adding capacity to existing nuclear plants through uprates, and through the potential addition of new low carbon natural gas and nuclear generation. Exelon is committed to achieving the Exelon 2020 goal but also recognizes that the changing economy and market outlook may require it to refine or alter the timing of some of these initiatives and update the 2020 roadmap accordingly. The anticipated economic stimulus package currently being considered in Congress and other new energy policies will also likely have an impact on initiatives under the plan. Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into the companys overall business plans and has an organized implementation effort underway. This implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Approximately 33 states have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may determine to adopt such legislation in the future. The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include cost effective renewable energy resources in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources subject to legislated rate impact criteria. 33 ComEd is procuring approximately $19 million in renewable energy credits under the ICC approved RFP for the period June 2008 through May 2009. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Act. In November 2004, Pennsylvania adopted the AEPS Act. The AEPS Act mandated that beginning in 2007, or following the end of an electric distribution companys retail electric generation rate cap transition period, certain percentages of electric energy sold by an electric distribution company or electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers shall be generated from certain alternative energy resources, as measured in Alternative Energy Credits (AECs). The requirement for electric energy that must come from Tier I alternative energy resources ranges from 1.5% to 8.0% and the Tier II requirement ranges from 4.2% to 10.0%. PECOs mandatory obligation to comply with the requirements of the AEPS Act begins upon the expiration of its generation rate cap on December 31, 2010. At this point in time, it is not certain that sufficient Tier I and solar renewable resources will be available in the market. If sufficient resources are not available in the market for electric distribution companies to meet their requirements, the PAPUC has the ability to make a force majeure determination to either reduce or remove the requirements under the AEPS Act. On December 20, 2007, the PAPUC approved PECOs plan to acquire and bank up to 450,000 non solar Tier I AECs (corresponding to the expected annual output of approximately 240 MWs of wind power) annually for a five year term in order to prepare for 2011, the first year of PECOs required compliance following the completion of its transition period. The banked AECs may be used in either of the two consecutive AEPS reporting periods after PECOs transition period. PECO proposed that all of the costs it incurs in connection with such procurement prior to 2011 be deferred as a regulatory asset with a return on the unamortized balance in accordance with the AEPS Act and will be recovered from customers in 2011. PECOs AEPS Act compliance costs incurred thereafter, would be recovered through a reconcilable ratemaking mechanism as contemplated by the AEPS Act and would be recoverable from customers on a full and current basis. In conformance with the plan approved on December 20, 2007, PECO conducted two RFPs during 2008, commencing in March 2008 and November 2008. Pursuant to the first RFP process, PECO entered into a five year agreement with an accepted bidder in August 2008. In the November 2008 RFP, PECO again seeks to enter into fixed price, five year agreements with qualified bidders to purchase AECs. PECO anticipates entering into agreements with accepted bidders by March 2009, with AEC purchases beginning no later than December 31, 2009. Pursuant to Act 129, which became law in October 2008, additional energy sources were added to the acceptable alternative energy sources defined in the AEPS Act. Act 129 provides for the acceptance of low impact hydropower and certain biomass energy as acceptable forms of alternative energy sources. Both low impact hydropower and certain biomass energy generated within Pennsylvania will be considered Tier I alternative energy sources. Biomass energy generated outside of Pennsylvania will be considered a Tier II alternative energy source. Also, Act 129 provides for quarterly increases in the percentage share of Tier I alternative energy sources required to be sold by electric distribution companies to reflect any new biomass energy or low impact hydropower resources that qualify as Tier I alternative energy sources. However, no new resources qualifying as biomass energy or low impact hydropower will be eligible to generate Tier I alternative energy credits until the PAPUC has increased the percentage share of Tier I to reflect these additional resources. 34 While Generation is not directly affected by RPS legislation from a compliance perspective, increased deployment of renewable and alternative energy resources will effect regional energy markets and, at the same time, may present some opportunities for sales of Generations renewable power, including from Generations hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations and wind energy PPAs. Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 6, 2009 Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 63 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon; Chairman, Generation Clark, Frank M. 63 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd OBrien, Denis P. 48 Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer and President, PECO Crane, Christopher M. 50 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon and Generation McLean, Ian P. 59 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets Moler, Elizabeth A. 60 Executive Vice President, Governmental and Environmental Affairs and Public Policy Von Hoene Jr., William A. 55 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Gillis, Ruth Ann 54 Executive Vice President, Exelon; President, Exelon Business Services Company Zopp, Andrea L. 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Hilzinger, Matthew F. 45 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer DesParte, Duane M 45 Vice President and Corporate Controller Generation Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 63 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon; Chairman Crane, Christopher M. 50 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon and Generation Pardee, Charles G. 49 Senior Vice President; President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear Schiavoni, Mark A. 53 Senior Vice President; President, Exelon Power Cornew, Kenneth W. 43 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team Hilzinger, Matthew F. 45 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon Veurink, Jon D. 44 Vice President and Controller ComEd Name Age Position Clark, Frank M. 63 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mitchell, J. Barry 61 President and Chief Operating Officer Pramaggiore, Anne R. 50 Executive Vice President Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs McDonald, Robert K. 53 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer Hooker, John T. 60 Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs and Real Estate and Facilities Galvanoni, Matthew R. 36 Vice President and Controller 35 PECO Name Age Position OBrien, Denis P. 48 Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer and President Barnett, Phillip S. 45 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Adams, Craig L. 56 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Bonney, Paul R. 50 Vice President and General Counsel Galvanoni, Matthew R. 36 Vice President and Controller Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective companys board of directors until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Rowe was Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Exelon from 2004 to 2008 and has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Exelon since 2002. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Clark was Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff of Exelon and President of ComEd from 2004 to 2005; and Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President ComEd from 2003 to 2004. Mr. Clark is listed as an executive officer of Exelon by reason of his position as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. OBrien was President of PECO from 2003 to 2007. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Crane was Executive Vice President, Exelon and Chief Operating Officer, Generation from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2004 to 2007; and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2003 to 2004. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Executive Vice President, Exelon and President of the Exelon Power Team division of Generation from 2002 to 2008. Ms. Moler was elected to her listed position in 2002. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Von Hoene was Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon from 2006 to 2008; Senior Vice President and Acting General Counsel, Exelon from 2005 to 2006; Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Exelon from 2004 to 2005; and Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Exelon from 2002 to 2004. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Gillis was President, Exelon Business Services Company from 2005 to 2008; and Senior Vice President, Exelon, and Executive Vice President, ComEd from 2004 to 2005. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Zopp was Senior Vice President, Exelon and Chief Human Resources Officer from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon from 2006 to 2007; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Sears Holding Corporation from 2003 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Senior Vice President, Exelon and Corporate Controller from 2005 to 2008; Vice President, Exelon and Corporate Controller from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Hilzinger was Principal Accounting Officer for ComEd and PECO through December 31, 2006. 36 Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. DesParte was Vice President, Finance of BSC from 2007 to 2008; Vice President, Exelon Energy Delivery from 2004 to 2006; and Vice President, Controller of Exelon Energy Delivery from 2003 to 2004. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Pardee was Senior Vice President, Generation and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2005 to 2007; Senior Vice President Engineering and Technical Services from 2004 to 2005; and Senior Vice President Nuclear Services from 2003 to 2004. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Schiavoni was Vice President of Exelon Power from 2003 to 2004. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Cornew held the following positions in the Power Team division of Exelon Generation: Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President, Power Transactions and Wholesale Marketing from 2004 to 2007; and Vice President, Portfolio Management from 2003 to 2004. Prior to the election to his listed position in 2004, Mr. Veurink was a partner at Deloitte and Touche. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mitchell was President of ComEd from 2005 to 2007; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Exelon during 2005; and Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Exelon from 2002 to 2005. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Pramaggiore was Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President, Regulatory and Strategic Services from 2002 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McDonald was Senior Vice President of Financial Planning and Chief Risk Officer of Exelon during 2005; and Vice President of Financial Planning and Risk Management of Exelon from 2002 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hooker served as Senior Vice President, ComEd, Legislative and External Affairs from 2005 to 2008; and Senior Vice President, Exelon Energy Delivery Real Estate and Property Management from 2003 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Galvanoni served as Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon during 2006. Mr. Galvanoni also served as Director of Accounting and Reporting, Generation from 2004 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Barnett was Senior Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon, from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President Finance, Exelon Generation from 2003 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Adams was Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, Exelon Business Services Company, LLC from 2004 to 2007; and Senior Vice President, Exelon Energy Delivery Support Services from 2002 to 2004. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Bonney was Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Regulatory from 2001 to 2006. 37 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Registrants each operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond their control. Management of each Registrant regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the Registrants businesses and discusses those risks with the Risk Oversight Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors and the ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. The risk factors below, as well as the risks discussed in ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Exelon Liquidity and Capital Resources, may adversely affect the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future adversely affect its performance or financial condition. General Business The following risk factors may adversely impact several or all of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Due to the national and world wide financial crisis, potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets as well as increased volatility in commodity markets may adversely affect the Registrants businesses, including the availability and cost of new short term funds for liquidity requirements, their ability to meet long term commitments, Generations ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect the Registrants financial condition, results of operations and cash flows (including the ability to pay dividends or fund other discretionary uses of cash such as growth projects). The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their financial commitments and short term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants respective operations. Generation and ComEd also use letters of credit issued under their revolving credit facilities to support their operations. Further disruptions in the capital and credit markets, or further deterioration of the banks financial condition could adversely affect the Registrants ability to draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Registrants and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect the Registrants access to liquidity needed for their respective businesses. Any disruption could require the Registrants to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for their business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing Generations hedging strategy to reduce collateral posting requirements, and reducing dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. The strength and depth of competition in competitive energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are 38 important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long term contracts such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd as described further in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations and cash flows. Continued market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for electricity and increased incidence of customers inability to pay their accounts. In addition, the slowing world economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices. These events would adversely impact the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The disruptions in capital and credit markets have also resulted in higher interest coupons on publicly issued debt securities, increased costs associated with commercial paper borrowing and under bank credit facilities, increased costs for certain variable interest rate debt securities of the Registrants and failed remarketings of tax exempt variable interest rate debt issued to finance certain of the Registrants facilities. Continuation of these disruptions would increase the Registrants interest expense and adversely affect their results of operations. The disruption in the capital markets and its actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy also adversely affect the value of the investments held within Exelons employee benefit plan trusts and Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts. Significant declines in the value of the investments held within Exelons employee benefit plan trusts will require the Registrants to increase contributions to those trusts to meet future funding requirements if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value in the foreseeable future and may adversely impact Exelons and its subsidiaries results of operations, cash flows and financial positions, including their shareholders equity. In addition, a significant decline in the market value of the nuclear decommissioning trust funds may require Exelon and Generation to increase contributions to those trusts to meet future funding requirements and may adversely impact Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exelons generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated. Fundamental changes in regulation could disrupt Exelons business plans and adversely affect its operations and financial results. Substantially all aspects of the businesses of Exelon and its subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation. Further, Exelons operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of its generation business to sell power at market based rates, as opposed to cost based or other similarly regulated rates, and the ability of its energy delivery businesses to recover their costs for purchased power and their costs of distribution of power to their customers. In its business planning and in the management of its operations, Exelon must address the effects of regulation of its businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking jurisdictions and taxing authorities. In particular, state and Federal legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets exceed the marginal cost of operating nuclear plants, claims that this difference is evidence that the competitive model is not working, and resulting calls for some form of re regulation, the elimination of marginal pricing, the imposition of a generation tax, or some other means of reducing the earnings of Generation and its competitors. As the energy markets continue to mature, a low number of wholesale market power participants entering procurement proceedings may also influence how certain regulators and legislators view the effectiveness of these competitive 39 markets. Although Exelon does not agree with these positions by some regulators and legislators, the effectiveness of Exelon in meeting these challenges may affect its operating results and cash flows and the value of its generation and energy delivery assets. Fundamental changes in the nature of the regulation of Exelons businesses would require changes in its business planning models and could adversely affect its operating results and the value of its assets. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants and under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, as was experienced in 2008, will increase the funding requirements under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value in the foreseeable future. Additionally, Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Also, if future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets are not recoverable from PECO and ComEd customers, the results of operations and financial position of the Exelon could be negatively affected. In addition, a decline in the market value of the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments, as was experienced in 2008, may increase the funding requirements of the obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, their results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. See Generation, Nuclear Operating Risks, Decommissioning for additional information. Legislators or regulators may respond to anticipated increases in rates following the end of the retail electric generation rate cap transition period in Pennsylvania on December 31, 2010 by enacting laws or regulations aimed at restricting or controlling those rates or by establishing rate relief programs that could require significant funding from PECO and or Generation that could adversely affect PECO and or Generations results of operations. In Pennsylvania, despite the decrease during 2008 in wholesale electricity market prices, legislators and regulators have still expressed concern regarding the transition to market based retail electric generation rates. Although Act 129 provides guidelines associated with electricity procurement that support competitive, market based procurement, elected officials have suggested rate cap extensions, rate increase deferrals and phase ins, a generation tax and contributions of value (potentially billions of dollars statewide) by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs. PECO and Generation cannot predict whether any of these measures will become law or whether elected officials might take action that could have a material impact on the procurement process. If the price which PECO is allowed to bill to customers for electricity is below PECOs cost to procure and deliver electricity, PECO expects that it will suffer adverse consequences, which could be material. 40 The Illinois Settlement Legislation enacted in 2007 providing rate relief to Illinois electric customers and requiring other changes in the electric industry in lieu of harmful alternatives such as rate freezes, caps, or a tax on generation, could be reversed or modified by new legislation that could be harmful to ComEd and Generation. The Illinois Settlement Legislation enacted in 2007 reflects the Illinois Settlement reached by ComEd, Generation, and other utilities and generators in Illinois with various parties concluding discussions of measures to address higher electric bills experienced in Illinois since the end of the legislatively mandated transition and rate freeze at the end of 2006. The Illinois Settlement Legislation addressed those concerns without implementing a rate freeze, generation tax, or other alternative measures that Exelon believes would have been harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. For more information regarding potential risks associated with such legislation, see Illinois Settlement Agreement and Retail Electric Services in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. Although the Illinois Settlement Legislation allows the contributors to the rate relief to terminate their funding commitments and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief in the event that, prior to August 1, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly passes legislation that freezes or reduces electric rates of or imposes a generation tax on parties to the Illinois Settlement, there is no guarantee that such legislation will not be passed and enacted in Illinois. The experience in Illinois in 2007 suggests a risk that the Illinois General Assembly may threaten extreme measures again in the future in an attempt to force electric utilities and generators to make further concessions. Such legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on ComEd and Generations results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelons 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like kind exchange transaction. If the IRS is successful in its challenge, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that becomes currently payable. As of December 31, 2008, Exelons and ComEds potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $1 billion excluding penalties. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, it could negatively affect Exelons and ComEds results of operations by up to $199 million (after tax) related to interest expense. The timing of the final resolution of this matter is unknown. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected, and tax credits. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Increases in taxes and fees. Due to the revenue needs of the states and jurisdictions in which the Registrants operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. 41 In August 2007, the Governor of Illinois signed Illinois Senate Bill (SB) 1544 into law, which became effective January 1, 2008. SB 1544 provided for new rules related to the sourcing of receipts from services for Illinois income tax purposes. These rules generally sourced receipts from services based upon where the benefit of the service was realized. In January 2008, the Governor of Illinois signed Illinois SB 783 into law, which amended certain provisions of SB 1544, including the rules pursuant to which receipts from services should be sourced for Illinois income tax purposes. Pursuant to SB 783, receipts from services generally should be sourced based upon where the services are received. On December 26, 2008, the Illinois Department of Revenue proposed regulations prescribing where utility services are received. These proposed regulations are susceptible to change until they are finalized, which is not expected to occur until March 2009 at the earliest. Exelon will assess the impact that SB 783 may have on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows once the Illinois Department of Revenue finalizes regulations prescribing where utility services are received, which as stated above, is not expected to occur until March 2009. The impact may be material. Exelons holding company structure could limit its ability to pay dividends. Exelon is a holding company with no material assets other than the investment in its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on several factors including their results of operations and cash flows. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediation of environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. 42 Generation will incur material costs of compliance if regulations under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act require retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at nuclear and fossil power plants owned by Generation. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if Federal and or state legislation is adopted to address climate change. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. Select Northeast and Mid Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and or state legislation to reduce GHG emissions is likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon and Generation may incur material costs either to additionally limit the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. The nature and extent of environmental regulation may also impact the ability of Exelon and its subsidiaries to meet the GHG emission reduction targets of Exelon 2020. For example, more stringent permitting requirements may preclude the construction of low carbon nuclear and gas fired power plants. Similarly, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see Global Climate Change in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. As a result of the Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. These standards, which previously were being applied on a voluntary basis, became mandatory on June 18, 2007. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon and its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance by the third parties, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a 43 material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Results of operations may be negatively affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. These medical benefit costs are increasing at a rate that is significantly greater than the rate of general inflation. Additionally, it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate which is higher than anticipated by the Registrants. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs, pension costs, or other increasing costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. The Registrants employees, contractors, customers and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. Significant risks include nuclear accidents, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases. A serious event may exceed the Registrants insurance coverage and may significantly impact the Registrants results of operations or financial position. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to operating challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. War, acts and threats of terrorism, natural disaster and other significant events may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. Exelon does not know the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Exelons operations. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect Exelons operations and its ability to raise capital. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Exelons revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect Exelons results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. 44 Additionally, Exelon is affected by changes in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes, storms and other natural disasters in its service territory and throughout the U.S. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive which could result in increased costs including supply chain costs. See Environmental Regulation in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K for additional information. Generation Market Transition Risks Generations business may be negatively affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. RTOs. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, and to purchase power to meet obligations not provided by its own resources. These wholesale markets allow Generation to take advantage of market price opportunities but also expose Generation to market risk. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features, which may create trading barriers among the markets. Approximately 80% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations will depend on (1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the development of competitive wholesale power markets, such as the PJM market, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market, such as, for example, withdrawal of significant participants from the regional wholesale markets. Generation could also be adversely affected by efforts of state legislatures and regulatory authorities to respond to the concerns of consumers or others about rising costs of energy that are reflected through wholesale markets. Competitive Electric Generation Suppliers. Because retail customers in both Illinois and Pennsylvania can switch from ComEd or PECO to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generations obligation to provide the supply needed to serve Generations share of the ComEd load and to supply PECO with all of the energy PECO needs to fulfill its default service obligation is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is the ability of retail customers to switch to competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from ComEd or PECO than Generation anticipates, the ComEd and or PECO load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more of such customers switch than Generation anticipates, the ComEd and /or PECO load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, cause Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal legislative or regulatory actions that could weaken competition in the wholesale markets or affect pricing rules in the RTO markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which has escalated in recent years as retail rate freezes expired and prices of electricity increased with rising fuel prices, is expected to continue in 2009. A number of advocacy groups have urged FERC to reconsider its support of competitive wholesale electricity markets and require the RTOs to revise the rules governing the RTO administered markets. In particular, the advocacy groups oppose the RTOs use of a single clearing price for electricity sold in the RTO markets utilizing locational marginal pricing. FERC conducted conferences 45 which led to a rulemaking on Wholesale Competition in Regions with Organized Electric Markets. On October 17, 2008, FERC issued a Final Rule, Order No. 719, to improve the operation of organized wholesale electric markets in the areas of (1) demand response and market pricing during periods of operating reserve shortage; (2) long term power contracting; (3) market monitoring policies; and (4) the responsiveness of RTOs and independent system operators (ISOs). A number of entities have filed requests for rehearing with FERC. The outcome of this FERC rulemaking process could significantly affect Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, on June 21, 2007, FERC issued a Final Rule on Market Based Rates for Wholesale Sales of Electric Energy, Capacity and Ancillary Services by Public Utilities. FERC provided clarification to the Final Rule on December 14, 2007. The Final Rule made a number of changes in FERCs market based rate analysis and required a market power update filing by Generation, ComEd and PECO, which was made on January 14, 2008. As discussed in more detail in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on January 15, 2009, FERC issued an order accepting Exelons filing, and therefore affirmed that Exelons affiliates with market based rates can continue to make market based sales. Accordingly, the application of the Final Rule has not had and is not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations, although the longer term impact will depend on how FERC applies the Final Rule as its enforcement of the rule matures with time and experience. Due to its dependence on its two most significant customers, ComEd and PECO, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of either of its most significant customers. Generation currently provides power under procurement contracts with ComEd for a significant portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements and a PPA with PECO to meet 100% of PECOs electricity supply requirements. In addition, Generation entered into a five year financial swap contract with ComEd, effective August 2007, to hedge a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds and PECOs continued payments under these procurement contracts and the PPA and would be adversely affected by negative events affecting these agreements, including the non performance or a change in the creditworthiness of either ComEd or PECO. A default by ComEd or PECO under these agreements would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generations physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generations cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation based taxes and contributions to rate relief packages. 46 Generation may not be able to effectively respond to competition in the energy industry. Generations financial performance depends in part on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. The new generating facilities of these market entrants may be more efficient than some of Generations existing facilities and will increase available capacity relative to demand for electricity, which could have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. Generations financial growth depends in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. As the demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and the Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Additionally, construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Nuclear Operations Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 24 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 24 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the co owned Salem plant operated by PSEG, was 12 in 2008 with 10 planned for 2009. The projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation will increase in 2009 compared to 2008 by approximately $223 million as Generation continues to invest in equipment upgrades that ensure safe reliable operations and provide for generation increases due to equipment efficiency improvements. Total operating and maintenance expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by 47 Generation are expected to decrease by approximately $6 million in 2009 compared to 2008 as a result of two less planned refueling outages in 2009 as compared to 2008, partially offset by inflationary cost increases. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have previously had a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. It is difficult to predict the cost for unknown potential future issues and any required remediation actions. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may adversely affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Environmental risk. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations establishing a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic organisms at existing generating stations requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Oyster Creek, Salem or other Exelon power plants, this could result in material costs of compliance. In addition, the amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to operate the plant after the 316(b) matter is ultimately resolved. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. Should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation 48 may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by PSEG, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plants output, Generation is dependent on the operational performance of the co owner operator. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generations, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $12.52 billion limit for a single incident. Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations portion of the NEIL distribution for 2008 was $28 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Operations. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. The performance of capital markets also can significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions only to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers or from the previous owners of the AmerGen plants, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation were unable to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the value and adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units may be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company 49 guarantees or make additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Operating Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained through long term uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Coal, natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. It is not possible to predict the ultimate cost or availability of these commodities. Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. A significant portion of Generations power portfolio is used to provide power under a long term PPA with PECO and procurement contracts with ComEd and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of its customers, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity under long term and short term contracts in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation that is not used to meet Generations long term supply commitments are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity likely reflects the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, energy or fuel will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be 50 forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, the retail businesses subject Generation to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities that serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Risk of Credit Downgrades. Generations trading business is subject to credit quality standards. At December 31, 2008, Generation had posted $93 million in letters of credit with various exchange floor clearing members and had no cash collateral deposit payments being held by the same floor clearing members. Generation was holding $758 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and received $161 million of letters of credit posted from counterparties. If Generation were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating) or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. If Generation had been downgraded to the investment grade rating of BBB and Baa3 as of December 31, 2008, it would have been required to provide an insignificant amount of incremental collateral. If Generation had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $830 million. The amount of collateral required to be provided by Generation at any point in time is dependent on a variety of factors, including (1) notional amount of trading positions, (2) nature of counterparty and related agreements, and (3) changes in power or other commodity prices. In addition, if Generation were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Generation could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies conclude that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the power generation industry or Generation has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of Generation. The $830 million includes $218 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Immature Markets. The wholesale spot markets are evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. 51 Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. Power Teams power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities related to its economic hedging and proprietary trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generations business is capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. For example, Generation is considering building a new nuclear plant in southeast Texas and plans to expend substantial resources for evaluation, development and permitting of the project, site acquisition and long lead procurement. In addition, Generation is evaluating the development of a 600 megawatt combined cycle natural gas plant in Pennsylvania. Substantial additional resources would be required for the construction of these plants if decisions are made to build. Achieving the intended benefits of a large capital project of this type is subject to a number of uncertainties. Generations results of operations could be adversely affected if Generation were unable to effectively manage its capital projects. Generations long lived assets may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. Generation evaluates the carrying value of long lived assets to be held and used for impairment whenever indications of impairment exist in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 144. The carrying value of long lived assets is considered impaired when the projected undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss would be recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value. Fair value is determined primarily by available market valuations or, if applicable, discounted cash flows. Factors such as the business climate, including current energy and market conditions, and the condition of an asset are considered when evaluating long lived assets for impairment. An impairment would require Generation to reduce the long lived asset through a charge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations ComEd Exelons and ComEds goodwill may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. Exelon and ComEd both had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2008 in connection with the merger between PECO and Unicom Corporation, the former parent company of ComEd. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. 52 There is a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at ComEd, and at Exelon, in 2009 or later periods, particularly in light of the current economic environment. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, results of ComEds rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. Such a potential impairment would be a noncash charge, which could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on goodwill impairments. Increases in customer rates and the impact of economic downturns may lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increasing rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease ComEds results from operations and cash flows. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities from terminating electric service to an Illinois residential space heating customer due to nonpayment, extending from December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. As a result, ComEd may be delayed in stopping service to customers who are delinquent in their bills, which could increase ComEds bad debt expense. ComEds current procurement plan includes purchasing power through contracted suppliers and the spot market. Purchased power prices fluctuate based on the supply and demand for electricity, which could lead to higher customer bills and potentially additional uncollectible expense. Increased purchased power and or delivery service cost rates to customers and economic downturns may lead customers to decrease their usage patterns, which may result in lower operating income. An increase in uncollectible account expense or a decrease in revenue due to lower deliveries would negatively impact ComEds results from operations and cash flows. ComEd would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties in the event that it were to lose its investment grade rating while certain wholesale market conditions exist. Some of ComEds energy procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and ComEd were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required under some of its energy procurement contracts and the financial swap contract with Generation to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. If ComEd had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, ComEd would have been required to provide approximately $282 million in additional collateral. ComEds procurement contract collateral requirements are a function of market prices. Collateral posting will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if ComEd were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. On October 3, 2008, Moodys upgraded ComEds long term senior unsecured ratings. As a result of this upgrade, PJM allowed ComEd to move from a position of no unsecured credit to an unsecured credit limit of $20 million in accordance with PJMs credit policy. Additionally, as of December 31, 2008, 53 ComEd had a $140 million letter of credit with PJM. If ComEd were to have its credit rating reduced to below investment grade, it would have been required to provide the entire unsecured credit of $20 million in additional collateral to PJM. ComEd could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry or ComEd has deteriorated. ComEd could experience a downgrade if the current supportive regulatory environment in Illinois became less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the state as a means of managing higher electric prices. Additionally, ComEds rating could be downgraded if ComEds financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to ComEd failing to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of ComEd. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Security Ratings for additional information. PECO The impact of economic downturns may lead to lower revenues and greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increasing rates could lead to a decrease in volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease PECOs results from operations and cash flows. The cost of PECOs purchased power, which is provided by Generation through a PPA, is capped as part of the transition period through 2010. For service following the end of PECOs transition period, PECO will purchase power on the open market which may significantly increase the cost of power PECO procures and in turn increase costs to the customer. The increase in rates could cause customer usage to decrease, resulting in lower transmission and distribution revenues and lower profit margins for PECO. Gas rates charged to PECO customers are comprised primarily of purchased natural gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to PECO, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to PECO. Purchased natural gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customers bill and may be adjusted quarterly, are designed for PECO to recover the cost of the natural gas commodity and pipeline transportation and storage services that PECO procures to service its customers. Gas rates may change quarterly based on market conditions, which may lead to higher prices. PECOs cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when natural gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. When purchased natural gas cost charges increase substantially reflecting higher natural gas procurement costs incurred by PECO, customer usage may decrease, resulting in lower distribution charges and lower profit margins for PECO. In addition, increased purchased natural gas and purchased power cost charges to customers, economic downturns and the related limitations on service termination may result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances, which would negatively impact PECOs results from operations and cash flows. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECO would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties in the event that it were to experience a downgrade in its credit rating or fall below investment grade. As of a result of the S&P downgrade of PECOs corporate credit rating on October 21, 2008, PJM reduced PECOs unsecured credit limit to $20 million in accordance with PJMs credit policy. As a result of this action, PECO was required to provide to PJM $90 million in collateral in the form of a 54 letter of credit on October 24, 2008. If PECO were to have its credit rating reduced to below investment grade, it would be required to provide approximately $20 million in additional collateral to PJM. In addition, certain of PECOs natural gas procurement contracts contain provisions that may require PECO to provide collateral or other adequate assurance of performance if PECO fails to satisfy the credit standards of its counterparties, such as PECO losing its investment grade credit rating. The collateral could be provided in the form of letters of credit, cash or other agreeable security. Also, PECO may be required to immediately pay all outstanding payables to its natural gas suppliers at that time. These requirements may have an adverse effect upon PECOs liquidity. If PECO had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, PECO could have been required to provide approximately $135 million in collateral under its natural gas procurement contracts. In addition, if PECO were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. PECO could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry or PECO has deteriorated. PECO could experience a downgrade if the current supportive regulatory environment in Pennsylvania became less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the state as a means of managing higher electric prices or if Pennsylvania legislators seriously consider an extension of the existing rate caps. Additionally, the rating could be downgraded if PECOs financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to PECO failing to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of PECO. Due to PECOs dependence on Generation to fulfill 100% of its electric energy supply requirements under a PPA, PECO could be negatively affected in the event of Generations inability to perform under the PPA. PECO currently acquires 100% of its electric energy and capacity requirements under a PPA with Generation. In accordance with the PPA, the current electric generation rates that PECO pays have been fixed and will continue to be fixed through 2010. In the event that Generation could not perform under the PPA, PECO would be forced to purchase electric energy from alternative sources at potentially higher rates. While PECO believes that this event is unlikely to occur, such an event could have a negative impact on PECOs results of operations and financial position. PECO may be subject to the risk of a legislative or regulatory mandated requirement to purchase Philadelphia Gas Works (PGW). PGW is a municipal gas utility owned by the City of Philadelphia that provides service almost exclusively within Philadelphia. A Pennsylvania state legislator has previously submitted legislation to the Pennsylvania General Assembly that would provide the PAPUC with the authority to investigate PGWs fitness to provide gas service and, if deemed unfit, to require a qualified public utility to purchase PGWs gas assets. If such legislation is enacted, PECO, with a natural gas service territory contiguous to and an electric service territory that includes Philadelphia, could be subject to a proceeding in which efforts are made to require PECO to purchase PGWs gas assets. While PECO believes that such a forced purchase would be unlawful, such a proceeding could expose PECO potentially to significant economic and political risk. 55 ComEd and PECO The following risk factors separately apply to both ComEd and PECO as additionally noted below. Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including rates for the procurement of electricity or gas and the recovery of MGP remediation costs. In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are typically subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators for establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations to provide electricity service to certain groups of customers in its service area who choose to obtain their electricity from the utility. The ultimate outcome of these regulatory actions will have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, lengthy proceedings and time delays in implementing new rates relative to when costs are actually incurred could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. ComEd and PECO are likely to be subject to higher transmission operating costs in the future as a result of PJMs RTEP and the rate design between PJM and MISO. In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJMs RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint for new facilities greater than or equal to 500 kV, and requires costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. FERC stated that PJMs stakeholders should develop a standard method for allocating costs of new transmission facilities lower than 500 kV. ComEd and PECO cannot estimate the longer term impact on their respective results of operations and cash flows because of the uncertainties relating to what new facilities will be built and the cost of building those facilities. In 2007, ComEd and PECO and almost all other transmission owners in PJM and the Midwest ISO (MISO), as directed by a FERC order issued in 2004, filed with FERC to continue the existing transmission rate design between PJM and MISO. Other transmission owners and certain other parties 56 have filed protests urging FERC to reject the filing. On January 31, 2008, FERC accepted the filing. An additional complaint was filed asking FERC to substitute a rate design that allocates the costs of all existing and new transmission facilities at 345 kV and above across PJM and MISO. On January 31, 2008, FERC denied the complaint. A request for rehearing of those orders has been filed, and any decision may then be subject to review in the United States Court of Appeals. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the outcome of this litigation. The impact of not meeting the criteria of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71) could be material to ComEd and PECO. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd, and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2008, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.4 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2008, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $2.5 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against other comprehensive income (before taxes) of up to $2.7 billion and $149 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities also could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 1, 3, 7 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Mandatory Federal or additional state energy conservation and RPS legislation could negatively affect the costs and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. Federal legislation mandating specific energy conservation measures or changes to existing state laws requiring the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO if timely recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for renewable energy credits and purchased power as well as significant increases in capital expenditures. There is no certainty that ComEd or PECO would be permitted sufficient or timely recovery of related costs in rates. Furthermore, energy conservation measures could lead to a decline in energy consumption and ultimately the revenues of ComEd and PECO. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential 57 concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the transmission and delivery of electricity and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including weather. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. The effects of weather and the related impact on electricity and gas usage may decrease ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd and PECO typically report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive, and the costs of capital projects may be significant. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. ComEds and PECOs results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if they are unable to effectively manage their own respective capital projects, if they are unable to raise the necessary capital, or if they do not receive full recovery of their own respective capital costs through future regulatory proceedings in a timely manner. A reduction of Exelons credit rating could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. Each of ComEd and PECO is a corporation separate and distinct from Exelon and Exelons other subsidiaries, and ComEd and PECO conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements and procedures intended to assure that ComEd and PECO are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate ComEd and PECO from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as ringfencing) may help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ringfencing measures, the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of 58 Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. A reduction in the credit rating of ComEd or PECO could have a material adverse effect on ComEd or PECO, respectively. Proposed Acquisition of NRG Exelon may not successfully complete its proposed acquisition of NRG. On October 19, 2008, Exelon announced a proposal to acquire NRG. On November 12, 2008, Exelon launched an exchange offer pursuant to which it offered to acquire all of NRGs common stock in exchange for Exelon common stock at a fixed exchange ratio of .485 of a share of Exelon common stock for each share of NRG common stock. As of February 6, 2009, NRG remains opposed to Exelons proposed acquisition. There are a number of conditions to the completion of the transactions contemplated by Exelons exchange offer and there can be no assurances that the transaction will be completed on the terms stated in the exchange offer. If Exelon is successful in its proposed acquisition of NRG, Exelon may not be able to realize all of the benefits expected to be derived from the acquisition. Exelon proposed its acquisition of NRG because the transaction is expected to create value for shareholders of Exelon and NRG through synergies and various other expected benefits. Failure to effectively integrate the business of NRG with the businesses of Exelon could result in a reduction or loss of the synergies expected to result from the combination of the two companies. The transaction could also result in increased or unexpected costs or diversion of management time and attention and management focus, which could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results and prospects of the combined company. Exelons indebtedness following the consummation of an acquisition of NRG will be higher than Exelons existing indebtedness. Therefore, it may be more difficult for Exelon to pay or refinance its debts, and Exelon may need to divert its cash flow from operations to debt service payments. The additional indebtedness could limit Exelons ability to pursue other strategic opportunities and increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. Exelons total indebtedness as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $13,151 million. Exelons pro forma total indebtedness, based on the most recent publicly available information for NRG as of September 30, 2008, after giving effect to the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding shares of NRG common stock and the refinancing, repurchase, redemption or other restructuring of NRGs indebtedness and certain other obligations is expected to be approximately $21,164 million. The estimated amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including decommissioning liabilities, of NRG that would be assumed or refinanced is based solely on publicly available information and there may be additional indebtedness or obligations not included in this estimate of which Exelon is unaware. Exelons debt service obligations with respect to this increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on its earnings and cash flows for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. Exelons increased indebtedness as a result of the proposed acquisition of NRG could have a significant impact on Exelons business and its future results of operations and cash flows. It could: make it more difficult for Exelon to pay or refinance its debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause Exelon to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make its scheduled debt payments; limit Exelons flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in its business and the industry in which it operates and, consequently, place Exelon at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors with less debt; 59 require a substantial portion of Exelons cash flows from operations for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and other general corporate purposes; result in a downgrade in the rating of Exelons indebtedness, which could limit Exelons ability to borrow additional funds or increase the interest rates applicable to Exelons indebtedness (following the public announcement of Exelons proposal to acquire NRG, on October 21, 2008, Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) lowered its corporate credit rating on Exelon, Generation and PECO to BBB from BBB+ and lowered the senior unsecured ratings of Exelon to BBB from BBB and of Generation to BBB from BBB+ and of PECOs senior secured debt to A from A; and in addition, the ratings of Exelon and all of its subsidiaries, including ComEd, were placed on CreditWatch by S&P with negative implications); reduce the amount of credit available to Exelon and its subsidiaries to support their power trading and hedging activities; and result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of Exelons borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest. Potential measures to protect investment grade ratings include issuing additional equity, sale of assets, or reducing dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. Based upon current levels of operations and anticipated growth, Exelon expects to be able to generate sufficient cash flow to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under Exelons existing credit facilities, the indentures governing Exelons existing notes, the financing that will be necessary to refinance all existing indebtedness of NRG that is required to be paid in connection with the acquisition of NRG, and NRGs indebtedness that may remain outstanding, but there can be no assurance that Exelon will be able to repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations. The terms that may be included in debt agreements entered into by Exelon in connection with the acquisition of NRG may impose many restrictions on Exelon. A failure by Exelon to comply with any of these restrictions could result in the acceleration of Exelons debt. Were this to occur, Exelon might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient cash to pay the accelerated indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants that may be included in debt agreements entered into by Exelon in connection with the acquisition of NRG may adversely affect Exelons ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in new business activities or certain corporate transactions. Exelons existing debt agreements require that the ratio of Exelons cash from operations to interest expense equal or exceed a specified level, and the terms that may be included in debt agreements entered into by Exelon in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the exchange offer may require compliance with additional financial ratios. As a result of these covenants and ratios, Exelon may be limited in the manner in which it can conduct its business, and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit Exelons ability to successfully operate its business. A failure to comply with these restrictions or to maintain the financial ratios contained in the existing and future debt agreements could lead to an event of default that could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. Exelon cannot provide assurances that its future operating results will be sufficient to ensure compliance with the covenants in its existing and future debt agreements or to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of an acceleration of its indebtedness, Exelon may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. Exelon does not 60 expect to refinance existing Exelon debt, including debt incurred at ComEd, PECO and Generation, in connection with the acquisition of NRG, and the consummation of the exchange offer will not result in any acceleration of such debt. Exelon has only conducted a review of NRGs publicly available information and has not had access to NRGs non public information. Therefore, Exelon may be subject to unknown liabilities of NRG which may have a material adverse effect on Exelons financial condition and results of operations. As of February 6, 2009, Exelon has only conducted a due diligence review of NRGs publicly available information. The consummation of the exchange offer may constitute a default, or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default, or result in the termination, cancellation, acceleration or other change of any right or obligation (including, without limitation, any payment obligation) under agreements of NRG that are not publicly available, including any power trading agreements relating to NRGs first and second lien structure. As a result, after the consummation of the exchange offer and the second step merger, Exelon may be subject to unknown liabilities of NRG, including, without limitation, any exposure relating to NRGs trading and hedging activities and outstanding ISDA master agreements, which may have a material adverse effect on Exelons financial condition and results of operations, which Exelon might have otherwise discovered if Exelon had been permitted by NRG to conduct a complete due diligence review of NRGs non public information. The acquisition is subject to various regulatory approvals, and obtaining such approvals may delay or prevent Exelons acquisition of NRG or may require divestitures. Exelon must receive approval from and or make filings with various foreign, Federal and state regulatory agencies with respect to the acquisition of shares of NRG common stock in the exchange offer. These approvals include the approval of FERC under the Federal Power Act, the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act and various utility regulatory, antitrust and other authorities in the United States and elsewhere. The governmental entities from which these approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition, require changes to the terms of the acquisition or impose additional obligations on regulated subsidiaries of Exelon and NRG. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the acquisition or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company, any of which might have a material adverse effect on the combined company following completion of the acquisition. Exelon cannot provide any assurance that the necessary approvals will be obtained or that there will not be any adverse consequences to Exelons or NRGs business resulting from the failure to obtain these regulatory approvals or from conditions that could be imposed in connection with obtaining these approvals, including divestitures or other operating restrictions upon Exelon, NRG, the combined company or its subsidiaries. Required regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner and could result in a significant delay in the consummation of the acquisition. The market price of Exelon common stock may decline as a result of the exchange offer and the second step merger. The market price of Exelon common stock may decline as a result of the exchange offer and the second step merger if, among other things: the integration of NRGs business into the business of Exelon is unsuccessful; Exelon does not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition of NRG as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors; or a downgrade in the rating of Exelons indebtedness occurs as a result of Exelons increased indebtedness incurred to finance the transaction. 61 In connection with the exchange offer and the second step merger, as of December 31, 2008, Exelon estimates that it could issue 123,051,030 shares of Exelon common stock. The increase in the number of shares of Exelons common stock issued may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, Exelon common stock. Uncertainties exist in integrating the business and operations of Exelon and NRG. Exelon intends, to the extent possible, to integrate NRGs operations with those of Exelon. Although Exelon believes that the integration of NRGs operations into Exelons will not present any significant difficulties, there can be no assurance that Exelon will not encounter substantial difficulties integrating NRGs operations with Exelons operations, resulting in a delay or the failure to achieve the anticipated synergies and, therefore, the expected cost savings and resulting increases in cash flow and earnings. The possible difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other things: possible inconsistencies in standards, management models, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between NRG and Exelon; the retention of key employees; the integration and consolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures, including computer information systems; the integration of each companys power trading organizations, including the hedging practices of each company; the restructuring of businesses within the two companies to properly align business units; the possible diversion of managements attention from ongoing business concerns; and the possibility of costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of the operations of the combined company. Even if the exchange offer is completed, full integration of NRGs operations with Exelons may be delayed if Exelon is unable to solicit proxies from NRG stockholders in a sufficient amount to approve the second step merger. The exchange offer is subject to a condition that, before the expiration of the offer, there shall have been validly tendered and not withdrawn at least a majority of shares of the NRG common stock on a fully diluted basis. At the end of the offer period, Exelon may solicit proxies in connection with a long form merger to exchange the remaining shares of NRG common stock for Exelon common stock. Any failure or delay in the solicitation of proxies needed to approve the second step merger could prevent or delay Exelon from realizing some or all of the anticipated benefits from the integration of NRGs operations with Exelons operations. The acquisition could trigger certain provisions contained in NRGs employee benefit plans or other agreements that could require Exelon to make change of control payments or permit a counter party to an agreement with NRG to terminate that agreement. Certain of NRGs employee benefit plans contain change of control clauses providing for compensation to be granted to certain members of NRG senior management if, following a change of control, NRG terminates the employment relationship between NRG and these employees, or if these employees terminate the employment relationship because their respective positions with NRG have materially changed. If successful, the acquisition would constitute a change of control of NRG, thereby giving rise to potential change of control payments. 62 Because Exelon has not had the opportunity to review NRGs non public information, there may be agreements that permit a counter party to terminate an agreement with NRG because the exchange offer or the second step merger would cause a default or violate an anti assignment, change of control or similar clause. If this happens, Exelon may have to seek to replace that agreement with a new agreement. Exelon cannot provide assurances that it will be able to replace a terminated agreement on comparable terms or at all. Depending on the importance of a terminated agreement to NRGs business, failure to replace that agreement on similar terms or at all may increase the costs to Exelon of operating NRGs business or prevent Exelon from operating part or all of NRGs business. In addition, the consummation of the exchange offer or the second step merger may constitute a default, or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default, or result in the termination, cancellation, acceleration or other change of any right or obligation (including, without limitation, any payment obligation) under agreements of NRG that are not publicly available, including any power trading agreements relating to NRGs first and second lien structure. The consummation of the exchange offer may accelerate NRGs existing indebtedness. The consummation of the acquisition of NRG pursuant to the exchange offer likely will require the refinancing of existing indebtedness of NRG. Exelon estimates that as of December 31, 2008, this refinancing and certain other payments required to complete the transaction will total in the aggregate approximately $8.6 billion, including the following: Payments to holders of the $4.7 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding of NRG senior notes who will have the right under such notes to require NRG to repurchase the senior notes at 101% of their face value upon the consummation of the exchange offer. Approximately $2.65 billion to refinance the $2.65 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding under NRGs Term B Loan, which outstanding amount will accelerate and become immediately due and payable upon consummation of the exchange offer. Approximately $375 million to refinance certain other indebtedness and other obligations of NRG and its subsidiaries. Up to $250 million in payments to holders of NRGs 3.625% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock who will have the right to require NRG to repurchase such stock at 100% of its liquidation preference (a repurchase price of approximately $250 million in the aggregate) upon consummation of the exchange offer. In addition, Exelon will be required to provide for the issuance of new letters of credit as a backstop facility in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1 billion due to the anticipated termination of NRGs letter of credit facility arising from the consummation of the exchange offer. Exelon may not be able to refinance NRGs existing debt, or such refinancing may be only on conditions that are not favorable to Exelon, either of which may have an adverse effect on the value of Exelon common stock. If Exelon does not control NRG and is unable to complete the second step merger, Exelon may not be able to assist NRG in refinancing debt that becomes due as a result of the consummation of the exchange offer, which may have an adverse effect on the value of NRG common stock. The amount of indebtedness and other obligations of NRG that may need to be refinanced are based solely on publicly available information and therefore there may be additional NRG indebtedness or obligations not included in Exelons estimates of which Exelon is unaware. 63 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2008: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Nuclear (d) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,065 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,740 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,295 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,140 (e) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,303 (e) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 994 (e) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,983 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (e) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Intermediate 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Intermediate 588 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 870 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 395 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (e) Mountain Creek 6, 7 Dallas, TX 2 Gas Peaking 240 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 565 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (e) 4,734 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 386 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 29 (continued on next page) 64 Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 152 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 105 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 12 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 296 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,437 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (e) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 572 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 1,642 Total 124 24,809 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of low efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels and pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. (c) For nuclear stations capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations reflect a summer rating. (d) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (e) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities, level of water supplies and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 65 ComEd ComEds electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that ComEd owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. ComEd believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements, licenses and franchise rights; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution ComEds higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2008 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 765,000 90 345,000 2,634 138,000 2,877 69,000 149 ComEds electric distribution system includes 44,373 circuit miles of overhead lines and 36,880 cable miles of underground lines. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. ComEd maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd. PECO PECOs electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that PECO owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. PECO believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements and licenses; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution PECOs higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2008 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 500,000 188(a) 230,000 541 138,000 156 69,000 188 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. 66 PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,948 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,680 cable miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs natural gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2008: Pipeline Miles Transportation 31 Distribution 6,691 Service piping 5,588 Total 12,310 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first and refunding mortgage bonds are issued. PECO maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of PECO. Exelon Security Measures The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans, long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry has strategic relationships with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. 67 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 68 PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 30, 2009, there were 658,242,488 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 139,903 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2008 2007 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 65.55 $ 91.64 $ 90.92 $ 86.52 $ 86.83 $ 82.60 $ 79.38 $ 72.31 Low price 45.00 61.16 82.22 73.04 73.76 64.73 68.67 58.74 Close 55.61 62.62 89.96 81.27 81.64 75.36 72.60 68.71 Dividends 0.525 0.500 0.500 0.500 0.440 0.440 0.440 0.440 The attached table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Exelon of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2008. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 1 October 31, 2008 11,221 $ 65.48 (b ) November 1 November 30, 2008 (b ) December 1 December 31, 2008 1,998 64.83 (b ) Total 13,219 65.38 (b ) (a) Shares other than those purchased as a part of a publicly announced plan primarily represent restricted shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares. (b) In April 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program that allows Exelon to repurchase shares of its common stock on a periodic basis in the open market. The share repurchase program is intended to mitigate, in part, the dilutive effect of shares issued under Exelons employee stock option plan and Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The aggregate shares of common stock repurchased pursuant to the program cannot exceed the economic benefit received after January 1, 2004 due to stock option exercises and share purchases pursuant to Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The economic benefit consists of direct cash proceeds from purchases of stock and tax benefits associated with exercises of stock options. The 2004 share repurchase program has no specified limit and no specified termination date. In addition, on August 31, 2007 and December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors approved share repurchase programs for up to $1.25 billion and $500 million, respectively, of Exelons outstanding common stock in connection with Exelons value return policy, which uses share repurchases from time to time to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. See Note 16 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons share repurchase programs. 69 Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below illustrates a five year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Exelon Corporation common stock, as compared with the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Utility Index for the period 2004 through 2008. This performance chart assumes: $100 invested on December 31, 2003 in Exelon Corporation common stock, in the S&P 500 Stock Index and in the S&P Utility Index; and All dividends are reinvested. Generation As of January 30, 2009, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. 70 ComEd As of January 30, 2009, there were 127,016,519 outstanding shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were indirectly held by Exelon. At January 30, 2009, in addition to Exelon, there were 265 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. PECO As of January 30, 2009, there were 170,478,507 outstanding shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were indirectly held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. While these restrictions may limit the absolute amount of dividends that a particular subsidiary may pay, Exelon does not believe these limitations are materially limiting because, under these limitations, the subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends sufficient to meet Exelons actual cash needs. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing III that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to ComEd Financing III; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of ComEd Financing III; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2008, such capital was $2.7 billion and amounted to about 31 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PECO Energy Capital, L.P. (PEC L.P.) or PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. 71 At December 31, 2008, Exelon had retained earnings of $6.8 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,323 million, ComEds retained earnings of $170 million consisting of an unappropriated retained earnings of $1,809 million, partially offset by $(1,639) million of retained deficits appropriated for future dividends and PECOs retained earnings of $389 million. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2008 and 2007: 2008 2007 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.525 $ 0.500 $ 0.500 $ 0.500 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2008 2007 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 301 $ 253 $ 302 $ 689 $ 261 $ 1,431 $ 370 $ 295 PECO 98 146 97 139 108 178 121 155 On January 27, 2009, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2009, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 13, 2009. This dividend declaration was made by the Exelon Board of Directors under a value return policy that established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. The value return policy contemplates the use of share repurchases from time to time, when authorized by the Board of Directors, to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. During 2008, 2007, and 2006, ComEd did not pay a dividend in order to manage cash flows and its capital structure. On January 26, 2009, the ComEd board declared a dividend of $0.472 per share on its common stock. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend in future periods. 72 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 18,859 $ 18,916 $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 14,133 Operating income 5,299 4,668 3,521 2,724 3,499 Income from continuing operations $ 2,717 $ 2,726 $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 1,870 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 20 10 2 14 (29 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,737 2,736 1,592 965 1,841 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (42 ) 23 Net income (a) $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 1,864 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 4.10 $ 4.03 $ 2.35 $ 1.40 $ 2.79 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.03 0.02 0.02 (0.04 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (0.06 ) 0.03 Net income $ 4.13 $ 4.05 $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 2.78 Dividends per common share $ 2.03 $ 1.76 $ 1.60 $ 1.60 $ 1.26 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 662 676 676 676 669 (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006; 2006 and 2005; and 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, in millions 2008 2007 (b) 2006 (b) 2005 (b) 2004 (b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 5,368 $ 4,580 $ 4,214 $ 3,886 $ 3,578 Property, plant and equipment, net 25,813 24,153 22,775 21,981 21,482 Noncurrent regulatory assets 5,940 5,133 5,808 4,734 5,076 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,625 2,694 3,475 4,705 Other deferred debits and other assets 8,071 8,870 7,974 7,910 7,748 Total assets $ 47,817 $ 45,361 $ 43,465 $ 41,986 $ 42,589 Current liabilities $ 4,080 $ 5,629 $ 4,977 $ 5,839 $ 4,522 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 12,592 11,965 11,911 11,760 12,148 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 2,520 3,301 3,025 2,518 2,490 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 17,491 14,242 13,458 12,656 13,811 Minority interest 1 42 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 11,047 10,137 10,007 9,125 9,489 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 47,817 $ 45,361 $ 43,465 $ 41,986 $ 42,589 73 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charge of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Exelon and Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with FIN 39 as amended by FSP FIN 39 1. Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 7,703 Operating income 3,994 3,392 2,396 1,852 1,039 Income from continuing operations $ 2,258 $ 2,025 $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 657 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 20 4 4 19 (16 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,278 2,029 1,407 1,128 641 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (30 ) 32 Net income $2,278 $2,029 $1,407 $1,098 $673 December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 (a) 2006 (a) 2005 (a) 2004 (a) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,724 $ 2,324 $ 2,655 $ 2,289 $ 2,019 Property, plant and equipment, net 8,907 8,043 7,514 7,464 7,536 Deferred debits and other assets 7,724 8,154 7,886 7,160 6,462 Total assets $ 20,355 $ 18,521 $ 18,055 $ 16,913 $ 16,017 Current liabilities $ 2,437 $ 2,080 $ 2,096 $ 2,676 $ 2,102 Long term debt 2,502 2,513 1,778 1,788 2,583 Deferred credits and other liabilities 8,850 9,558 8,697 8,467 8,249 Minority interest 1 1 1 2 44 Members equity 6,565 4,369 5,483 3,980 3,039 Total liabilities and members equity $ 20,355 $ 18,521 $ 18,055 $ 16,913 $ 16,017 (a) Exelon and Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with FIN 39 as amended by FSP FIN 39 1. 74 ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,136 $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ 5,803 Operating income (loss) 667 512 555 (12 ) 1,617 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 201 $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (676 ) $ 676 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (9 ) Net income (loss) (a) $ 201 $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 676 (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006; 2006 and 2005 and 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,309 $ 1,241 $ 1,007 $ 1,024 $ 1,196 Property, plant and equipment, net 11,655 11,127 10,457 9,906 9,463 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,625 2,694 3,475 4,705 Noncurrent regulatory assets 858 503 532 280 240 Other deferred debits and other assets 2,790 3,880 3,084 2,806 2,077 Total assets $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 Current liabilities $ 1,153 $ 1,712 $ 1,600 $ 2,308 $ 1,764 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 4,915 4,384 4,133 3,541 4,282 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 2,440 3,447 2,824 2,450 2,444 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 3,994 3,305 2,919 2,796 2,451 Shareholders equity 6,735 6,528 6,298 6,396 6,740 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 75 PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,567 $ 5,613 $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 4,487 Operating income 699 947 866 1,049 1,014 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 325 $ 507 $ 441 $ 520 $ 455 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (3 ) Net income $ 325 $ 507 $ 441 $ 517 $ 455 Net income on common stock $ 321 $ 503 $ 437 $ 513 $ 452 December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 819 $ 800 $ 762 $ 795 $ 727 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,074 4,842 4,651 4,471 4,329 Noncurrent regulatory assets 2,597 3,273 3,896 4,454 4,836 Other deferred debits and other assets 679 895 464 366 241 Total assets $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 Current liabilities $ 981 $ 1,516 $ 978 $ 936 $ 748 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 2,960 2,866 3,784 4,143 4,628 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 49 250 151 68 46 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,910 3,068 3,051 3,235 3,313 Shareholders equity 2,269 2,110 1,809 1,704 1,398 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 76 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon is a utility services holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following operating segments: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Exelons corporate operations, some of which are performed through its business services subsidiary, Exelon Business Services Company, LLC (BSC), provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $2,737 million in 2008 as compared to $2,736 million in 2007 and diluted earnings per average common share were $4.13 for 2008 as compared to $4.05 for 2007. The following factors contributed to an increase in net income: higher average realized margins at Generation; net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities; increased transmission and delivery service revenue at ComEd in 2008 resulting from the 2007 transmission and distribution rate cases; the impact of the decreased charges in 2008 associated with the 2007 Illinois Settlement; and a 2007 loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska Offsetting these factors above are the following decreases in net income: net unrealized and realized losses on Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to the former AmerGen nuclear generating units and the unregulated portions of the Peach Bottom nuclear generating units (Unregulated Units); 77 increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense; income associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities in 2007; and the impact of the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in 2007. See Exelon Corporation Results of Operations for further information regarding the changes in net income. Economic Environment. As the economic environment has worsened, the Registrants have performed additional assessments to determine the impact, if any, of recent market developments, including the bankruptcy, restructuring or merging of certain financial and energy companies, on the Registrants financial statements. The Registrants additional assessments have included a review of macroeconomic conditions, access to liquidity in the capital and credit markets, counterparty creditworthiness, value of the Registrants investments (particularly in the employee benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust funds) and exposure to other risks. The recent unprecedented volatility in the economy may create additional risks in the upcoming months and possibly years. Macroeconomic conditions U.S. and global economic conditions worsened significantly in the last quarter of 2008. The stress caused to international credit markets, initially driven in large part by the devaluation of risky U.S. subprime debt, led to a dramatic tightening in liquidity. The U.S. government has responded with several initiatives to alleviate the strain on the financial markets. While these programs have had some positive effects on financial systems, credit remains tight and economic conditions in the U.S. and globally have continued to deteriorate. The slowdown, initially led by housing declines in specific regional markets, has spread to encompass almost the entire U.S. economy. Both industrial production and consumer spending have fallen sharply in the last half of 2008, while the U.S. unemployment rate has increased. As a result of the decline in economic output, energy demand in ComEds and PECOs service territories is lower, which has led to reduced sales to industrial, commercial and residential customers. Lower demand for electricity may also lead to lower margins for Exelons wholesale fleet, although this effect will be mitigated in the short term by Exelons hedging policies. In addition, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of their utility bills. Management has taken steps to mitigate this risk through heightened collection efforts. In addition, the world slowdown in economic activity has reduced demand for oil, coal and natural gas, and has led to sharply falling commodity prices. By the end of 2008, Eastern coal, oil and gas were trading at less than half of their prices at the summer peak. As a result, wholesale electricity prices in the U.S. have fallen. Due to Exelons hedging policies, as described in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, it has had limited exposure to lower power prices in the short term; however, prolonged lower commodity prices would adversely impact Exelons results of operations in the future. Liquidity in the capital and credit markets The Registrants believe they have sufficient liquidity despite the disruption of the capital and credit markets. The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flow from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large, diversified credit facilities ($7.3 billion in aggregate total commitments with $6.9 billion available as of December 31, 2008, of which no financial institution, assuming announced consolidations, has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation and PECO and 12% for ComEd). Generation and ComEd also have additional letter of 78 credit facilities used solely to enhance tax exempt variable rate debt. Certain of these letters of credit will expire in 2009 ($311 million and $194 million at Generation and ComEd, respectively), which the Registrants plan to extend or substitute. See Variable Rate Debt within Liquidity and Capital Resources for further detail on these credit facilities. While not significant to the Registrants to date, the disruptions in capital and credit markets may result in increased borrowing costs associated with short term and long term debt. The Registrants accelerated a number of bond issuances in 2008 in order to limit the risk of volatility in the credit markets and to enhance liquidity. As more fully discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, the Registrants completed all their long term financings planned for 2008. With the exception of debt to unconsolidated financing affiliates, the Registrants have $29 million of debt maturing in 2009 ($12 million and $17 million at Generation and ComEd, respectively) and $613 million of debt maturing in 2010 ($400 million and $213 million at Exelon Corporate and ComEd, respectively). The debt to unconsolidated financing affiliates at PECO is repaid through the collection of competitive transition charges from customers as allowed by restructuring legislation that was adopted in Pennsylvania in 1996. The Registrants routinely review liquidity sufficiency, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Management continues to closely monitor events and the financial institutions associated with its credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the effects of a longer term disruption in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. Counterparty creditworthiness The Registrants are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations or the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. Generations power marketing activities are governed by risk management policies limiting transactions to a diversified group of high quality counterparties. During 2008, the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the weakening of companies within the energy industry have underscored the importance of these risk management practices. Although Generations credit exposure was predominately with investment grade companies at December 31, 2008, changes in forward market prices could have a disproportionate impact to the percentage of credit exposure with non investment grade companies. As of December 31, 2008, the net exposure after credit collateral for Generations commodity contracts of $1,143 million included $1,119 million of exposure to investment grade companies and $24 million of exposure to non investment grade companies, primarily in the coal supply industry. As a result of managements review of Generations counterparties, the direct net exposure of $22 million to Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc., a counterparty in wholesale energy marketing transactions, was fully reserved and charged to expense in the third quarter of 2008. As further discussed below, Generation also currently procures uranium concentrates through long term contracts. Approximately 60% of the requirements from 2009 through 2013 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Management continues to closely monitor the status of Generations counterparties and will take action, as appropriate, to further manage its counterparty credit risk. Under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, ComEd procures power through supplier forward contracts, standard block energy purchases, and spot market purchases. Collateral postings are required only of suppliers for the supplier forward contracts that ComEd entered into with winning 79 suppliers from the Illinois auction, including Generation. The standard block energy purchases require collateral postings from both ComEd and the counterparty suppliers, including Generation, should exposures between forward market prices and benchmark price levels exceed established unsecured credit limits outlined in the agreements. In the event the counterparties fail to perform, ComEd might be forced to purchase power through an RFP process or in the spot markets at less favorable prices. As of December 31, 2008, there was no cash collateral or letters of credit posted between suppliers and ComEd. The potential failure of energy suppliers to perform is mitigated by ComEds ability to recover its actual costs to procure power as stipulated in the Illinois Settlement Legislation as well as the ICC approved procurement tariff. PECO has counterparty credit risk related to its electricity and natural gas suppliers. Generation provides 100% of PECOs electric energy under a purchase power agreement (PPA). There are no collateral posting provisions included in PECOs electric supply agreement with Generation. PECO procures natural gas from suppliers under both short term and long term contracts. The potential failure of natural gas suppliers to perform is mitigated by PECOs ability to seek recovery of its actual costs to procure natural gas through the PAPUCs purchased gas cost clause, subject to PAPUC review. A further discussion of counterparty risk is included in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Value of investments (particularly in employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trust funds) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for the employees of the Registrants. The Registrants believe that the oversight of the investments held under Exelons employee benefit plans is rigorous and that the investment strategies are prudent. The market value of the investments within the employee benefit plan trusts declined by approximately 26% during the year ended December 31, 2008. The benefit plan assets and obligations of Exelon and AmerGen are remeasured annually using a December 31 measurement date. Reductions in plan assets from investment losses during 2008 was a significant driver contributing to an increase of approximately $3.9 billion to the plans unfunded status upon actuarial revaluation of the plan on December 31, 2008. Changes in the value of plan assets did not have an impact on the income statement for 2008; however, the change in value resulted in an after tax reduction of shareholders equity of approximately $1.5 billion. Reduced benefit plan assets are expected to result in increased benefit costs and required funding contributions in future years. Such increases could be material to 2009 and subsequent years. Exelon estimates that pension and other postretirement benefits expense will total approximately $425 million in 2009 as compared to approximately $240 million in 2008. See Critical Accounting Policies for additional information regarding the potential impacts of declines in the return on benefit plan assets that is less than assumed and Liquidity and Capital Resources for information regarding future funding requirements. Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established on a unit by unit basis to satisfy Generations nuclear decommissioning obligations. Currently, Generation is making contributions only to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds) with respect to the former PECO units, it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers for the former ComEd units or from the previous owners of the AmerGen plants, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. Generation believes that its oversight of these trust funds is rigorous and the investment strategy is prudent. At December 31, 2008, approximately 39% of the funds were invested in equity and 61% were invested in fixed income securities, with limitations related to concentration and investment grade ratings. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the amounts of unrealized losses on the trust funds during the year ended December 31, 2008. 80 Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels. Depending on the value of the trust funds, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Exelons and Generations cash flows and financial positions may be significantly adversely affected. Generations next report to the NRC is due on March 31, 2009, based on trust fund values and estimated decommissioning obligations as of December 31, 2008. Based on these values, six units at three nuclear generating stations were in an underfunded position by approximately $185 million in total at December 31, 2008, relative to the NRC minimum funding requirements. Exelon and Generation currently are evaluating the remedy that will be used to address the underfunded status. See PART I. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the effects of a longer term disruption in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. Based on a regulatory agreement with the ICC that applies to the former ComEd nuclear generating units on a unit by unit basis, as long as funds held in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds exceed the total estimated decommissioning obligation, decommissioning impacts recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, including realized and unrealized income and losses of the trust funds and accretion of the decommissioning obligation, are generally offset within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Should the trust funds for the former ComEd units continue to experience declines in market value such that the value of the trust funds for any unit falls below the amount of the estimated decommissioning obligation for that unit, the accounting to offset decommissioning impacts in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for that unit would be discontinued, the decommissioning impacts would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and the adverse impact to Exelons and Generations results of operations and financial positions could be material. At December 31, 2008, the trust fund investment values for each of the former ComEd units exceeded the related decommissioning obligation for each of the units. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the former ComEd nuclear generating units as a result of the ICC order. The Registrants engage in a securities lending program with respect to the investments within their employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trust funds. In connection with this program, the securities loaned are supported by collateral posted by the borrowers, which the Registrants invest in a short term collateral fund or in assets with maturities matching, or approximating, the duration of the loan of the related securities. The Registrants bear the risk of loss with respect to their invested cash collateral. Such losses may result from a decline in fair value of specific investments or due to liquidity impairments resulting from current market conditions. Losses recognized by the Registrants have not been significant to date. Exelon has invested collateral of $660 million as of December 31, 2008. Management continues to monitor the performance of the invested collateral and to work closely with the trustees to limit any potential further losses. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Registrants decided to end their participation in the securities lending program and have chosen to initiate a gradual withdrawal of their participation in the securities lending program in order to avoid potential losses on invested cash collateral due to the lack of liquidity in the market. Currently, the weighted average maturity of the securities within the collateral pools is approximately 7.5 months. Exelons withdrawal from the securities lending program based on the maturities of securities within the collateral pools is expected to result in the return of approximately 70% of its loaned securities (in terms of value) by the end of 2009, 94% by the end of 2010 and the return of the remaining securities by the end of 2011. 81 Value of other assets In the fourth quarter of 2008, ComEd assessed its goodwill for impairment and the analysis indicated that there was no impairment. However, the recent economic downturn and the capital and credit market crisis have impacted the market related assumptions, resulting in a significant decrease in the estimated fair value of ComEd since the November 1, 2007 assessment. Further declines could result in an impairment and such a charge could be material. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the goodwill impairment analysis. Generation regularly evaluates the economic viability of its generating plants. Generations plants continue to be economically viable, and Generations review indicated there was no impairment as of December 31, 2008 under a held and used model. See Outlook for 2009 and Beyond Proposal for acquisition of NRG for discussion of Generations evaluation of its Texas generating plants for impairment in connection with the potential divestiture of these plants as a result of Exelons proposed acquisition of NRG. Other risks The Registrants have reviewed their exposure to insurance risk and have concluded that there have been no material changes related to the availability and cost of liability, property, nuclear risk, and other forms of insurance. Management continues to monitor closely events and the ratings for insurance companies associated with its insurance programs. Further declines in the market may have a significant adverse impact on the availability and cost of insurance. Regulatory and Environmental Developments. The following significant regulatory and environmental developments occurred during 2008. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelon Exelon surpassed its U.S. EPA Voluntary Climate Leaders goal announced on May 5, 2005 to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. The GHG management efforts undertaken in support of the goal, including the previous closure of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and its current energy efficiency initiatives, yielded greater than expected reductions. Exelon is in the process of having its GHG reductions verified by a third party and endorsed by U.S. EPA. While Exelon met its goal, on July 15, 2008, Exelon announced a new longer term comprehensive environmental plan, Exelon 2020. ComEd Delivery Service Rate Case On September 10, 2008, the ICC issued its final order in ComEds rate case proceeding that was initiated in October 2007. The order approved an increase in the annual revenue requirement of $274 million, which became effective on September 16, 2008. Transmission Rate Case On January 16, 2008, FERC approved an annual transmission network service revenue requirement for ComEd of approximately $390 million, effective May 1, 2007. The revenue requirement represented an increase of approximately $93 million and was based on a newly approved formula rate model. On May 15, 2008, ComEd filed its first annual formula update filing, which updates ComEds formula rate to include actual 2007 expenses and capital additions plus forecasted 2008 capital additions. The update resulted in a revenue requirement of $430 million, plus an additional $26 million related to the 2007 true up of actual costs for a total increase of approximately $66 million, which became effective for the period June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2009. 82 PECO Gas Distribution Rate Case During 2008, PECO filed a petition before the PAPUC for a $98 million rate increase. On October 23, 2008, the PAPUC approved a settlement of a distribution rate increase that provides for an annual revenue increase of $77 million. The approved distribution rate adjustment became effective on January 1, 2009. PECO AEPS Filing In August 2008, PECO entered into a five year agreement with an accepted bidder to purchase AECs from the March 2008 RFP. PECO launched its second RFP in November 2008 and anticipates entering into fixed price, five year agreements by March 2009, with purchases beginning no later than December 31, 2009. PECO Default Service Filing On November 14, 2008, PECO amended its comprehensive Default Service Program and Rate Mitigation Plan with the PAPUC relating to its plan to provide default electric service following the expiration of rate caps on December 31, 2010. The purpose of the amendment was to address the requirements of Act 129 of 2008 (Act 129), which was signed into law in October 2008. PECO has withdrawn its Energy Efficiency Package and will revise its energy efficiency programs consistent with the new requirements of Act 129. The PAPUC will conduct a formal proceeding to give all interested parties the opportunity to examine aspects of the amended filing and make independent recommendations. The process is expected to be completed by July 2009. Outlook for 2009 and Beyond. Several significant events may occur during the rest of 2009 and beyond, including the following: Proposal for acquisition of NRG On October 19, 2008, with authorization from Exelons Board of Directors, Exelon submitted a proposal to NRG to enter into a business combination with NRG under which Exelon would exchange 0.485 of a share of Exelon common stock for each share of NRG common stock. On November 12, 2008, Exelon announced an exchange offer in which Exelon, through its wholly owned subsidiary Exelon Xchange, offered to acquire all of the outstanding NRG common stock in exchange for 0.485 of a share of Exelon common stock plus cash in lieu of fractional shares, representing a total equity value of approximately $6.2 billion for NRG based on Exelons closing price on October 17, 2008. On January 7, 2009, Exelon announced that the initial expiration of the offer on January 6, 2009, NRG shareholders had tendered approximately 106 million shares of common stock of NRG, representing just over 45.6% of all outstanding shares of NRG common stock, and Exelon was extending the expiration date of the exchange offer until 5:00 PM New York City Time on February 25, 2009 unless further extended. Exelon is taking steps to obtain the regulatory approvals required for the proposed acquisition of NRG. NRG rejected Exelons initial offer and remains opposed to Exelons exchange offer. See PART I ITEM 1. Business for further information. As part of its FERC filing related to the NRG offer to address potential market power concerns, Exelon proposed to divest its three facilities in Texas Mountain Creek, Handley and LaPorte totaling approximately 2,400 MW of capacity. The plans also include transferring to a third party Exelons power purchase agreements in Texas totaling approximately 1,200 MW of capacity. In addition, the combined company would divest approximately 1,000 MW of capacity in the PJM East market, including plants currently owned by NRG. Exelon does not believe there are any other generation overlap issues related to the proposed combination. In connection with the decline in current market conditions and the potential divestiture of the Texas plants proposed in its December 2008 FERC filing, Generation evaluated its Texas plants for potential impairment as of December 31, 2008 pursuant to SFAS No. 144. The impairment evaluation was performed to assess whether the carrying values of the plants were 83 not recoverable. Although energy market conditions have deteriorated since mid 2008, in part reflecting lower commodity prices, which could have an adverse impact on the potential sales price of these plants; Generations evaluation indicated that the estimated undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying values of the plants and an impairment did not exist as of December 31, 2008 under the held and used model of SFAS No. 144. As Exelon continues its efforts to acquire NRG, Generation will continue to evaluate its Texas plants for impairment, taking into account current energy market conditions, the likelihood and timing of the divestiture of these plants and the potential sales proceeds that might be obtained. Should current market conditions further decline or the likelihood of divestiture increase, an impairment may be triggered and any potential impairment of its Texas plants could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations in the period in which the impairment is recorded. Pennsylvania Transition Legislation PECO is subject to caps on its electric generation rates through December 31, 2010 in connection with its PPA with Generation. In Pennsylvania, despite the decrease during 2008 in wholesale electricity market prices, legislators and regulators have still expressed concern regarding the rate increases expected in the transition to market based retail electric generation rates. Although recently enacted Act 129 provides guidelines associated with electricity procurement that support competitive, market based procurement, elected officials have suggested rate cap extensions, rate increase deferrals and phase ins, a generation tax and contributions of value (potentially billions of dollars statewide) by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs that could have a significant impact on PECO and Generation. Act 129 requires that Pennsylvania electric utility companies meet energy conservation and demand reduction targets, beginning in 2011, to enhance the Commonwealths energy independence and enable programs to help consumers manage their energy use. In 2009, PECO will file plans with the PAPUC to meet these energy efficiency and demand response goals. Also, PECO will be required to transition its electric customers to smart meter technology over a fifteen year period and to make available time of use rates and real time price plans. The legislation allows recovery of costs for each of these programs, subject to approval by the PAPUC. Presidential Administration Due to the new Democratic Administration and increased Democratic majorities in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate, there is a stronger likelihood that legislation related to energy, environmental and tax policy will be enacted in the foreseeable future. These changes may include, but are not limited to, legislation or regulation limiting GHG emissions; changing corporate tax law; a higher tax on dividend income; the Federal imposition of a renewable energy portfolio standard; and incentives for investments in transmission, smart grid deployment, energy efficiency and renewable generation. Exelon continuously evaluates the potential impact of proposed public policy changes which may impact the Registrants either favorably or unfavorably. New Growth Opportunities Generation pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize shareholder value, taking earnings, cash flow and financial risk into account. On September 2, 2008, Generation submitted a combined COL application to the NRC seeking authorization to build and operate a new dual unit nuclear generating facility in 84 Victoria County in southeast Texas. In addition, Generation filed Part I and Part II of a loan guarantee application with the Department of Energy (DOE) for these potential new units on September 26, 2008 and December 18, 2008, respectively. The COL application preserves for Exelon and Generation the option to develop a new nuclear plant in Texas without immediately committing to the full project. In order to continue preserving and assessing this option, Exelon and Generation have approved expenditures on the project of up to $100 million, which includes fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments and other costs for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. Amounts spent on the project to date have been expensed. The development phase of the project is expected to extend into 2009, with approval of funding beyond the $100 million commitment subject to management review and board approval. Generation has not made a decision to build a new nuclear plant at this time. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision to build is made by Generation are the successful granting of the COL by the NRC; significant progress to resolve questions around the short term interim and long term permanent storage, as well as potential future recycling, of spent nuclear fuel; broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant; and assurances that a new plant can be financially successful, which would entail economic analysis that would incorporate assessing construction and financing costs, including the availability of sufficient financing, production and other potential tax credits, and other key economic factors. However, the decision to build the new nuclear plant depends, in large part, upon financial support under the DOE loan guarantee program. At this time, there is considerable uncertainty about the likelihood of DOE financial support for the project due to the limited appropriations available to DOE for this purpose and the number of projects competing for those limited resources. On May 1, 2008, Generation announced that it is actively pursuing the development of a 600 megawatt combined cycle natural gas power plant in Pennsylvania. The new plant would advance Exelons efforts to combat carbon emissions associated with electricity generation. Generation has been looking at several existing plant sites that it owns with access to the transmission lines, water and fuel needed to operate a new power plant. Generation has stated that a final decision on whether to move forward would be made only after it had more certainty around environmental permitting and had performed a more detailed economic review. Generation will continue to study the development of the project but will not make material investments or pursue permits until general market conditions have improved the estimated economic returns of the project. Amounts spent on the project to date, which are not material, have been expensed. Illinois Settlement Legislation The legislation reflecting the agreement that ComEd, Generation and other generators and utilities in Illinois reached with various representatives from the State of Illinois (Illinois Settlement Legislation) is expected to provide ComEd with greater stability and certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to its customers with less risk that rate freeze or other harmful legislation will be pursued in the near term. As stipulated in the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA, under the oversight of the ICC, is responsible for all procurement plans for annual delivery periods starting in June 2009 and thereafter. ComEd has stabilized a portion of its costs of procurement pursuant to the five year financial swap contract with Generation. ComEd will be allowed to fully recover the costs of procuring energy, including the impacts of the financial swap contract, in its rates as it was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation. In the event that legislation is enacted in the Illinois General Assembly prior to August 1, 2011 that freezes or reduces electric rates or imposes a generation tax, the Illinois Settlement Legislation permits ComEd and Generation, as contributors to certain rate relief programs, to terminate their funding commitments to such programs. 85 Cost Savings Exelon anticipates that it will be subject to the ongoing pressures of rising operating expenses due to increases in costs, such as medical benefits and rising payroll costs due to inflation. Also, Exelon will continue to incur significant capital costs associated with its commitment to produce and deliver energy reliably to its customers. Increasing capital costs may include the price of uranium, which fuels the nuclear facilities, and continued capital investment in Exelons aging distribution infrastructure and generating facilities. Exelon is determined to operate its businesses responsibly and to appropriately manage its operating and capital costs while serving its customers and producing value for its shareholders. In 2009, Exelon will realize cost savings through sustainable productivity improvements. This effort will include the evaluation of Exelons governance model to ensure its corporate cost structure is optimal in supporting the operating companies. In addition, Exelon will implement more rigorous planning and performance measurement tools that allow it to better identify areas for productivity improvement across the operating companies and to measure progress against plan. Competitive Markets In general, market prices for energy have increased over the past number of years due to the rise in natural gas and other fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates generally have been below wholesale energy market prices in PJM, and Generations margins on sales in excess of PECOs requirements generally have been higher during this time. Given its significance to Generation, the expiration at the end of 2010 of the current PPA with PECO could result in significant changes in margins earned by Generation beginning in 2011. Any increase or decrease in margin as a result of entering into new power supply contracts backed by the generation capacity previously committed to PECO will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, energy demand and the outcome of Pennsylvania transition legislation. See Pennsylvania Transition Legislation above for more information. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2009 and 2010. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has estimated greater than 95% and 90% for economic and cash flow hedge ratios for 2009 and 2010, respectively, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This financial hedge ratio is the estimate of the gross margin that is hedged given the current assessment of market volatility. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates and through long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Generation procures coal primarily through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 60% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2009 through 2013 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these 86 or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Environmental Matters On July 15, 2008, Exelon announced a new longer term comprehensive environmental plan, Exelon 2020. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for results of Exelons GHG emissions reduction plan and detail on the Exelon 2020 plan. The Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) was promulgated by the EPA in 2005 to reduce power plant emissions of SO2 and NOx. On December 23, 2008, in response to a petition for re hearing of its July 11, 2008 decision to vacate CAIR, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit determined not to vacate the existing CAIR pending issuance of a revised CAIR by the EPA. The Courts decision to allow CAIR to remain in effect will assist eastern states in continuing to improve regional air quality in support of meeting Federal air quality attainment dates. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail on the impact of the vacature of CAIR to Generation. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit invalidated compliance measures of the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. These measures were supported by the utility industry because they were cost effective and provided existing plants with needed flexibility in selecting the compliance option appropriate to its location and operations. Several industry parties sought review by the Supreme Court and a decision is expected in the first half of 2009. On July 9, 2007, the EPA formally suspended the Phase II rule due to the uncertainty about the specific compliance requirements created by the courts remand of significant provisions of the rule. Until the EPA finalizes the rule on remand (which could take several years), the state permitting agencies will continue the current practice of applying their best professional judgment to address impingement and entrainment requirements at plant cooling water intake structures. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail on the impact of this rule to Generation. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs in limiting further the GHG emissions from its operations or in procuring emission allowance credits. However, Exelon may benefit from stricter emission standards due to its significant nuclear and other low carbon capacity, which is not anticipated to be adversely affected by proposed GHG emission standards such as the Clean Air Act. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in the case of Massachusetts v. U. S. EPA holding that carbon dioxide (CO2) and other GHG emissions are pollutants subject to regulation under the new motor vehicle provisions of the Clean Air Act. The case was remanded to the EPA for further rulemaking, and the possible outcomes from this decision could include regulation of GHG emissions from manufacturing plants, including electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities. See PART I Item 1. Business for further discussion. 87 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies on a unit by unit basis to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, low level radioactive waste disposal and other costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternatives and timing scenarios on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% (high cost scenario) or minus 15% (low cost scenario) over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a low level radioactive waste landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a 20 year delay) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for disposal, which Generation currently estimates to begin in 2020. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting spent nuclear fuel, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 88 Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2008 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 273 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 97 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 133 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 220 If the estimated date for DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel were to be extended to 2025, Generations aggregate nuclear decommissioning obligation would be reduced by an immaterial amount. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or estimated amount of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments (Exelon and Generation) The trust fund investments have been established to satisfy Exelons and Generations nuclear decommissioning obligations. The nuclear decommissioning trust funds hold debt and equity securities directly and indirectly through commingled funds. Generations investment policies place limitations on the types and investment grade ratings of the securities that may be held by the trusts. These policies restrict the trust funds from holding alternative investments and limit the trust funds exposures to investments in highly illiquid markets. On January 1, 2008, Generation elected the fair value option under SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159) with respect to these investments; therefore, the investments are carried at fair value with all changes in fair value being recognized through the statement of operations. With respect to individually held equity securities, the trustees obtain prices from pricing services, whose prices are obtained from direct feeds from market exchanges, which Generation is able to independently corroborate. For fixed income securities, the trustees receive multiple prices from pricing services, which enable cross provider validations by the trustees in addition to checks for unusual daily movements. A primary price source is identified based on asset type, class or issue for each security. The trustees monitor prices supplied by pricing services and may use a supplemental price source or change the primary price source of a given security if the trustees challenge an assigned price and determine that another price source is considered to be preferable. Generation has obtained an understanding of how these prices are derived, including the nature and observability of the inputs 89 used in deriving such prices. Additionally, Generation selectively corroborates the fair values of securities by comparison to other market based price sources. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), Generation categorizes these investments under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Investments with maturities of the three months or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents and included in the recurring fair value measurements hierarchy as Level 1 or Level 2. The fair values of equity securities held directly by the trust funds are based on quoted prices in active markets and are categorized in Level 1. Equity securities held individually are primarily traded on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ Global Select Market, which contain all actively traded securities due to the volume trading requirements imposed by these exchanges. In addition, U.S. Treasury securities are categorized as Level 1 because they trade in a highly liquid and transparent market. The fair values of fixed income securities, excluding U.S. Treasury securities, are based on evaluated prices that reflect observable market information, such as actual trade information of similar securities, adjusted for observable differences and are categorized in Level 2. To draw parallels from the trading and quoting of fixed income securities with similar features, pricing services consider various characteristics including the issuer, vintage, purpose of loan, collateral attributes, prepayment speeds, interest rates and credit ratings in order to properly value these securities. Commingled funds, which are analogous to mutual funds, are maintained by investment companies and hold certain investments in accordance with a stated set of fund objectives. Short term commingled funds held within the trust funds, which generally hold short term fixed income securities, are categorized as Level 2 as the fair values of these funds are derived from observable prices, and these funds are not subject to restrictions regarding the purchase or sale of shares. The objectives of the remaining commingled funds in which Exelon and Generation invest primarily seek to track the performance of specific equity indices, specifically the Standard & Poors (S&P) 500, the Russell 3000 and the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE indices, by purchasing equity securities to replicate the capitalization and characteristics of the indices. The fair value of these commingled funds primarily are based on net asset values per fund share (the unit of account), derived from the quoted prices in active markets of the underlying equity securities. However, because the shares of these commingled funds are not publicly quoted, not traded in an active market and are subject to certain restrictions regarding their purchase and sale, the commingled funds are categorized in Level 3. See Notes 8 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill which relates to the acquisition of ComEd under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. In general, fair value increases to assets and or fair value decreases to liabilities would increase the size of any impairment. For example, a decrease in the fair value of ComEds debt would increase the size of any impairment and vice versa. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets, liabilities and 90 goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of the reporting unit. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In the assessment, Exelon and ComEd estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, expected cash flow model with scenarios reflecting potential outcomes of future regulatory filings and managements associated plans, and a resulting range of operating results and cash flows. The model includes an estimate of ComEds terminal value based on these expected cash flows and on an earnings multiple approach, which reflects the estimated value of comparable utility companies. Other significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit include ComEds capital structure, interest rates, utility sector market performance, operating and capital expenditure requirements, fair value of debt and other factors. This approach, including the comparable utility companies used to determine the earnings multiple, has been consistently applied since the adoption of SFAS No. 142. In addition, ComEd performs alternative market based analyses to corroborate the estimated fair value, including a reconciliation of the sum of the fair value of all Exelon reporting units to its enterprise value based on its trading price. The regulatory environment, such as the September 2008 Rate Order, has provided more certainty related to ComEds future cash flows. However, the recent economic downturn and the capital and credit market crisis have significantly impacted the market related assumptions, resulting in a significant decrease in the estimated fair value of ComEd since the November 1, 2007 assessment. For example, the earnings multiple used to determine the terminal value decreased from 8.6x at November 1, 2007 to 7.5x at November 1, 2008. While ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2008, further deterioration of the market related factors used in the impairment review could result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset over its fair value. An impairment would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation, including an evaluation made in connection with Exelons proposed acquisition of NRG. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service 91 lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel and hydroelectric generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. The completion of the depreciation study is expected to result in an increase to ComEds annual depreciation expense of approximately $15 million during 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. The impact of the new rates was not material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees. Employees of Generations former wholly owned subsidiary, AmerGen, participate in a separate AmerGen sponsored defined benefit pension and other postretirement welfare benefit plans. Effective January 8, 2009, the AmerGen legal entity was merged into Generation. At that time, Exelon became the sponsor of all AmerGen pension and postretirement benefit plans. The change in sponsorship did not materially impact the funding or substantive provisions of the AmerGen plans. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under these plans involve various factors, including numerous assumptions and accounting elections. When determining the various assumptions that are required, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The benefit costs are affected by, among other things, the actual rate of return on plan assets, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment crediting rate, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs and the level of benefits provided to employees and retirees. Pension and postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are included with labor costs and ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. 92 Actual asset return experience has a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens pension and postretirement benefit plans. The overall actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2008 were a loss of approximately 26% compared to an assumed 8.75% positive return. This loss of 26% is expected to increase 2009 and 2010 benefit costs as follows: Increase in 2009Pension Cost Increase in 2009PostretirementBenefit Cost Increase in 2010Pension Cost Increase in 2010PostretirementBenefit Cost 2008 negative asset returns of 26% $ 110 $ 99 $ 176 $ 95 This information assumes that movements in asset returns occur absent changes to other actuarial assumptions, and does not consider any actions management may take to mitigate the impact of the asset return shortfalls, such as changes to the amount and timing of future contributions. The actuarial assumptions used in the determination of pension and postretirement benefit costs are interrelated and changes in other assumptions could have the impact of offsetting all or a portion of the potential increase in benefit costs set forth above. In addition, declines in the value of plan assets during 2008 resulted in an increase to the plans unfunded status and a decrease to shareholders equity upon actuarial revaluation of the plan on December 31, 2008, and reduced benefit plan assets may increase the amount and accelerate the timing of required future funding contributions. The pension and postretirement plan trusts investments include debt and equity securities, held directly and through commingled funds, and alternative asset classes. With respect to individually held equity securities, the trustees obtain prices from pricing services, whose prices are obtained from direct feeds from market exchanges. For fixed income securities, the trustees receive multiple prices from pricing services, which enable cross provider validations by the trustees in addition to checks for unusual daily movements. A primary price source is identified based on asset type, class or issue for each security. The trustees monitor prices supplied by pricing services and may use a supplemental price source or change the primary price source of a given security if the trustees challenge an assigned price and determine that another price source is considered to be preferable. Additionally, Exelon selectively corroborates the fair values of securities by comparison to other market based price sources. Commingled funds are valued based on the net asset value of the underlying assets, which are generally equity and fixed income securities. Alternative investments are valued by investment managers, generally using a model based approach. Exelon has obtained an understanding of how these prices are derived, including the nature and observability of the inputs used in deriving such prices. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 8.75%, 8.75%, and 9.00% for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.80%, 7.85%, and 8.15% in 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The EROA is based on current asset allocations as described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A change in the asset allocation strategy could significantly impact the EROA and related costs. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the market related value (MRV) of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments that are to be made during the year. SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 106, 93 Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (SFAS No. 106) allow the MRV of plan assets to be either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. Exelon uses a calculated value when determining the MRV of the pension plan assets that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. This calculated value has the effect of stabilizing variability in assets to which Exelon applies the expected return. Exelon uses fair value when determining the MRV of the other postretirement benefit plan assets and the AmerGen pension plan assets. The discount rate for determining the pension benefit obligations was 6.09%, 6.20%, and 5.90% at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The discount rate for determining the other postretirement benefit obligations was 6.09%, 6.20%, and 5.85% at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end will be used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use a discount rate and EROA of 6.09% and 8.50%, respectively, for estimating its 2009 pension costs. Additionally, Exelon will use a discount rate and expected return on plan assets of 6.09% and 8.10%, respectively, for estimating its 2009 other postretirement benefit costs. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onPension Liability atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on2008Pension Cost Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on 2008PostretirementBenefit Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 641 $ 52 $ 212 $ 26 Decrease rate of EROA by 0.5% 48 8 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens postretirement benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2008 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2008 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on2008Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase assumed health care cost trend by 1% $ 431 $ 49 Decrease assumed health care cost trend by 1% (358 ) (40 ) 94 Extending the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2008 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2008 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefit Obligation atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on2008Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years $ 145 $ 19 The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. As allowed by SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106, the impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs, and certain of its actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs over participants average remaining service period related to eligibility age, and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of defined pension plan participants was 12.8 years, 13.0 years and 13.5 years for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 6.9 years, 6.9 years, and 7.3 years for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.4 years, 9.7 years and 10.3 years for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for future recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues collected from customers in excess of prescribed recovery that must be refunded to customers through an adjustment of billing rates. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of SFAS No. 71, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of those operations, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 would be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. If ComEd no longer met the criteria of SFAS No. 71, the impact on ComEds capital structure could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain which would be recorded in the event ComEd reversed its net regulatory liability 95 position. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 3, 7 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments and recent rate orders, including for other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS No. 5), as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that will ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of the appropriate regulatory process. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies, known circumstances specific to a particular matter, discussions held with the applicable regulatory body, and other factors. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual events, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a five year financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. In addition, Generation and PECO have entered into a long term full requirements power purchase agreement under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities, as Amended (SFAS No. 133) and related interpretations. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under SFAS No. 133 requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133 continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium do not meet the definition of a derivative under SFAS No. 133 since they do not provide for net settlement and the uranium markets are not sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium markets do become 96 sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the cost or value of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases or normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Normal purchases and sales are contracts where physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time, and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases or normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of the initial ComEd procurement auction and the subsequent RFP process, and all of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives, qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase or normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in counterparty credit and book outs (financial settlements). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a 97 regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives are valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges and, are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. Generation reviews and corroborates the price quotations to ensure the prices are observable which includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. Generations non exchange based derivatives are predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, including assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, Generation considers the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the model inputs generally are not observable. Generation considers credit and nonperformance risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of credit and nonperformance risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk were not material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. Exelon may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Exelon uses a calculation of future cash inflows and estimated future outflows related to the swap agreements, which are discounted and netted to determine the current fair value. Additional inputs to the present value calculation include the contract terms, as well as market parameters such as interest rates and volatility. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. 98 Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Beginning January 1, 2007, the Registrants began accounting for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Prior to January 1, 2007, the Registrants estimated their uncertain income tax obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS No. 109), SFAS No. 5, and Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements a replacement of FASB Concepts Statement No. 3 (incorporating an amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2) (CON 6). The Registrants recognize accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense or interest income in other income and deductions on their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Registrants also have non income tax obligations related to real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters that are outside the scope of FIN 48 and accounted for under SFAS No. 5 and CON 6. Accounting for tax positions requires judgments, including estimating reserves for potential uncertainties. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with FIN 48, SFAS No. 5, SFAS No. 109 and CON 6 as applicable, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimable based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their financial statements. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but 99 not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of probable losses on the accounts receivable balances. The allowance is based on known troubled accounts, historical experience and other currently available evidence. For ComEd and PECO, customer accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. Customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory guidelines. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories and are prohibited from terminating electric service to certain residential customers due to nonpayment during certain months of the year. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would need to make adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts for the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. 100 Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Results of Operations Exelon 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)2007 vs. 2006variance Operating revenues $ 18,859 $ 18,916 $ (57 ) $ 15,655 $ 3,261 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 6,582 7,642 1,060 5,232 (2,410 ) Operating and maintenance 4,566 4,289 (277 ) 3,868 (421 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 1,634 1,520 (114 ) 1,487 (33 ) Taxes other than income 778 797 19 771 (26 ) Total operating expenses 13,560 14,248 688 12,134 (2,114 ) Operating income 5,299 4,668 631 3,521 1,147 Other income and deductions Interest expense (699 ) (647 ) (52 ) (616 ) (31 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (133 ) (203 ) 70 (264 ) 61 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (26 ) (106 ) 80 (111 ) 5 Other, net (407 ) 460 (867 ) 266 194 Total other income and deductions (1,265 ) (496 ) (769 ) (725 ) 229 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 4,034 4,172 (138 ) 2,796 1,376 Income taxes 1,317 1,446 129 1,206 (240 ) Income from continuing operations 2,717 2,726 (9 ) 1,590 1,136 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 10 10 2 8 Net income $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.13 $ 4.05 $ 0.08 $ 2.35 $ 1.70 Net Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Exelons net income for 2008 was consistent compared to 2007. Increases were primarily due to higher average realized margins at Generation, reflecting higher realized prices on market sales; increased revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio; net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities; the impact of the Illinois Settlement reached in 2007; increased transmission and delivery service revenue at ComEd in 2008 resulting from the 2007 transmission and distribution rate cases; the impact of a 2007 loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska; the impact of a decreased charitable contribution to the Exelon Foundation; and gains related to the settlement of claims related to uranium supply agreements. These increases were offset by unrealized and realized losses associated with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to its Unregulated Units; increased nuclear fuel costs; decreased nuclear output at Generation reflecting increased scheduled refueling outage days in 2008; increased operating and maintenance expense related to the higher number of planned nuclear refueling outages; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense at PECO and ComEd as well as the establishment of a reserve related to Generations accounts receivable from Lehman; labor related 101 inflation; increased scheduled CTC amortization expense at PECO; impact of a gain realized in 2007 on nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments related to the Unregulated Units primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy; realized nuclear decommissioning trust fund losses related to a tax planning strategy; the impact of the favorable 2007 PJM Interconnection, LLC billing settlement with PPL Electric; the impact of the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in 2007; and income associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities in 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Exelons net income for 2007 increased due to the impact of a $776 million impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher average margins on Generations wholesale market sales primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006; increased nuclear output at Generation reflecting fewer outage days; increased transmission revenues at ComEd; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased delivery volume, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; decreased nuclear refueling outage costs; the impact of incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; gains realized on decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy; favorable income tax benefit associated with Exelons method of capitalizing overhead costs; increased earnings associated with synthetic fuel producing facilities; the reduction in the reserve related to the successful PURTA tax settlement at PECO; and the impact of a charge in 2006 associated with the termination of the proposed merger with PSEG. These increases were partially offset by decreased energy margins at ComEd due to the end of the regulatory transition period; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; the impact of the Illinois Settlement; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the Unregulated Units; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; increased amortization expense related to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO; costs associated with the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas; benefits in 2006 of approximately $288 million to recover certain costs by the ICC rate orders; and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Operating Revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Operating revenues decreased due to lower nuclear output due to more planned refueling outage days in 2008; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; the impact of the Illinois Settlement; the reduction in PECOs distribution rates made to refund the PURTA tax settlement to customers (completely offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability reflected in taxes other than income); and the impact of the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by higher realized prices on market sales at Generation; increased transmission and delivery service revenue at ComEd resulting from the 2007 transmission and distribution rate cases; increased delivery volumes, excluding the effects of weather, at PECO; and increased revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio. See additional analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Operating revenues increased due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation resulting from higher volumes of generation sold to the market at higher prices as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; the impact of rate changes and mix at ComEd due to the end of the rate freeze and the 102 implementation of market based rates for electricity; increased transmission revenues at ComEd resulting from the 2007 transmission rate case; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; higher delivery volumes, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; and authorized electric generation rate increases under the 1998 restructuring agreement at PECO. These increases were partially offset by more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; costs associated with ComEds settlement agreement with the City of Chicago; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. See additional analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities; favorable settlements reached in 2008 related to uranium supply agreements; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; and the impact of a 2007 loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to a contract with Tenaska. These decreases were partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs at Generation; increased transmission expense at PECO; and the impact of the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in 2007. See additional analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Purchased power and fuel expense increased due to higher market energy prices; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to a contract with Tenaska; higher prices for electricity purchased by ComEd; and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply for 2007 and 2006. The increases in purchased power and fuel expense were partially offset by a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007; more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under its supplier forward contracts from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See additional analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense at PECO and ComEd as well as the establishment of a reserve related to Generations accounts receivable from Lehman; discrete disallowances, net of allowed regulatory assets, mandated by the September 2008 ICC order in ComEds 2007 delivery service rate case; labor related inflation; increased expenses related to a higher number of planned nuclear refueling outages, including planned nuclear refueling outage costs at Salem; and decreased nuclear insurance credits accrued by Generation in 2008. These increases are partially offset by a decrease in costs associated with the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas; decreased charitable contributions to the Exelon Foundation; and decreased stock based compensation costs. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the Unregulated Units; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm 103 damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; new nuclear site development costs for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas; increased tax consulting fees; and the impact of benefits of $201 million recorded at ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate orders. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006; the impact of incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; and the impact of a charge recorded in 2006 of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the now terminated proposed merger with PSEG. See additional discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to increased scheduled CTC amortization expense at PECO and higher plant balances due to additional plant placed in service across Exelon. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service across Exelon. These increases were partially offset by lower amortization related to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Taxes Other Than Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Taxes other than income decreased primarily due to an Illinois distribution tax refund received in 2008 and the amortization of the regulatory liability recorded in connection with the 2007 PURTA settlement, which began in January 2008 and is offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in the distribution rates to refund the PURTA taxes to customers. These factors are partially offset by the impact of increased property taxes and payroll taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to an increase in utility taxes resulting from higher utility revenues at PECO and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of a reserve related to the successful PURTA tax settlement at PECO. Other Income and Deductions. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The change in other income and deductions primarily reflects unrealized and realized losses on Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments of its Unregulated Units; the impact of 2007 gain from sale of Generations investment in TEG and TEP; and the income associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities that ceased operations at the end of 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The change in other income and deductions reflects interest income related to the favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; a gain related to the sale of investments by Generation; income and gains associated with the nuclear decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy; benefits of $87 million recorded by ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate order; and earnings associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. 104 Effective Income Tax Rate. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The effective income tax rate was 32.6% for 2008 compared to 34.7% for 2007. The 2008 rate decreased, as compared with 2007, primarily due to the impact of higher marginal tax rates applicable to realized and unrealized losses in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds recorded at Generation, partially offset by the expiration of synthetic fuel tax credits under Internal Revenue Code Section 45K on December 31, 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The effective income tax rate was 34.7% for 2007 compared to 43.1% for 2006. The 2007 rate decreased, as compared with 2006, primarily due to ComEds non deductible goodwill impairment charge in 2006 which increased the rate by 9.7% and a decrease of state tax expense in 2007 of 1.5% due to a tax restructuring to allow utilization of separate company losses for state income tax purposes, partially offset by a reduction in synthetic fuel credits of 1.7% in 2007 caused by an increase in the phase out due to higher oil prices, and other changes amounting to 1.1%. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information of the components of the effective income tax rates and discussion on the investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Discontinued Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Income from discontinued operations related to expiration of tax indemnifications in connection to a prior investment in Sithe Energies, Inc. (Sithe). Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe Energies, Inc (Sithe). In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Exelon Enterprises Company, LLC (Enterprises). Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2008, 2007, and 2006 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)2007 vs. 2006variance Generation $ 2,258 $ 2,025 $ 233 $ 1,403 $ 622 ComEd 201 165 36 (112 ) 277 PECO 325 507 (182 ) 441 66 Other (a) (67 ) 29 (96 ) (142 ) 171 Total $ 2,717 $ 2,726 $ (9 ) $ 1,590 $ 1,136 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 105 Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs.2007variance 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)2007 vs.2006variance Generation $ 2,278 $ 2,029 $ 249 $ 1,407 $ 622 ComEd 201 165 36 (112 ) 277 PECO 325 507 (182 ) 441 66 Other (a) (67 ) 35 (102 ) (144 ) 179 Total $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2008 2007 Favorable(Unfavorable)Variance2008 vs. 2007 2006 Favorable(Unfavorable)Variance2007 vs. 2006 Operating revenues $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 5 $ 9,143 $ 1,606 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 3,572 4,451 879 3,978 (473 ) Operating and maintenance 2,717 2,454 (263 ) 2,305 (149 ) Depreciation and amortization 274 267 (7 ) 279 12 Taxes other than income 197 185 (12 ) 185 Total operating expenses 6,760 7,357 597 6,747 (610 ) Operating income 3,994 3,392 602 2,396 996 Other income and deductions Interest expense (136 ) (161 ) 25 (159 ) (2 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of investments (1 ) 1 (2 ) (9 ) 10 Other, net (469 ) 155 (624 ) 41 114 Total other income and deductions (606 ) (5 ) (601 ) (127 ) 122 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,388 3,387 1 2,269 1,118 Income taxes 1,130 1,362 232 866 (496 ) Income from continuing operations 2,258 2,025 233 1,403 622 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 4 16 4 Net income $ 2,278 $ 2,029 $ 249 $ 1,407 $ 622 Net Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generations net income increased primarily due to higher operating revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses and unrealized and realized losses in 2008 and realized gains in 2007 related to nuclear decommissioning trust funds associated with the Unregulated Units. Higher net operating revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense, 106 reflected higher average realized margins, higher net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities, lower costs incurred in conjunction with the Illinois Settlement, a 2007 loss associated with the tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska, increased revenue from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio and gains related to the settlement of uranium supply agreements in 2008, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs, lower nuclear output reflecting a higher number of scheduled refueling and non refueling outage days, the gain on the termination of the State Line PPA in 2007, a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007 and impairments of stored oil and gas inventory in 2008. Higher operating and maintenance expenses included increased wages, salaries and benefits (excluding stock based compensation), nuclear refueling outage costs associated with a higher number of planned refueling outages, higher costs associated with nuclear decommissioning related activities and the establishment of a reserve related to counterparty exposure to Lehman, partially offset by decreases in contractor expenses, stock based compensation and costs associated with the possible construction of a nuclear power plant in Texas. Additional offsets to increased net income in 2008 included decommissioning trust fund activity associated with the Unregulated Units which reflected unrealized losses in 2008, realized losses related to a tax planning strategy in 2008 and the impact of realized gains in 2007 associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Generations net income increased primarily due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, more than offsetting inflationary and other cost pressures, a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in the nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the Unregulated Units and costs associated with the new nuclear plant COL application. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased due to higher average margins primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006, the contractual increase in the prices associated with Generations PPA with PECO, the termination of the State Line PPA and a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007, partially offset by amounts incurred in conjunction with the Illinois Settlement, net mark to market losses on derivative activities and the execution of the Georgia Power PPA. In addition to these impacts, Generations net income for 2007 included (all after tax) gains of $38 million related to the Unregulated Units associated with changes in Generations investment strategy with the decommissioning trust fund investments, a gain on the sale of investments of $11 million and earnings of $4 million associated with the settlement of a tax matter related to Generations previous investment in Sithe. Operating Revenues. For 2008, 2007 and 2006 Generations revenues were as follows: Revenue 2008 2007 2008 vs. 2007 2006 2007 vs. 2006 Variance %Change Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,561 $ 3,537 $ 24 0.7 % $ 4,674 $ (1,137 ) (24.3 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales (a) 6,720 6,834 (114 ) (1.7 )% 3,640 3,194 87.7 % Total electric sales revenue 10,281 10,371 (90 ) (0.9 )% 8,314 2,057 24.7 % Retail gas sales 497 449 48 10.7 % 540 (91 ) (16.9 )% Trading portfolio 106 43 63 146.5 % 14 29 207.1 % Other operating revenue (b) (130 ) (114 ) (16 ) 14.0 % 275 (389 ) (141.4 )% Total operating revenue $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 5 0.0 % $ 9,143 $ 1,606 17.6 % (a) For 2008, $2 million of pre tax reduction in revenue from settlements related to the ComEd swap and $29 million of pre tax revenue from sales to ComEd under the RFP have been excluded from ComEd and included in Marketing and Retail sales. (b) Includes amounts incurred for the Illinois Settlement for 2008 and 2007, and revenues relating to fossil fuel sales and decommissioning revenue from PECO during 2008, 2007 and 2006. 107 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 Sales (in gigawatt hours (GWhs)(a)) 2008 2007 Variance %Change 2006 Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates 64,166 64,406 (240 ) (0.4 )% 119,354 (54,948 ) (46.0 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 112,008 125,244 (13,236 ) (10.6 )% 71,326 53,918 75.6 % Total electric sales 176,174 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% (a) 486 GWh during 2008, resulting from sales to ComEd under the RFP starting in September 2008, have been excluded from ComEd and included in Market and Retail sales. Trading volumes of 8,891 GWhs, 20,323 GWhs and 31,692 GWhs for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. The changes in Generations electric sales to affiliates for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Electrical sales to affiliates Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Variance 2007 vs. 2006 Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) ComEd $ (9 ) $ 9 $ $ 650 $ (2,035 ) $ (1,385 ) PECO 43 (19 ) 24 169 79 248 Total $ 34 $ (10 ) $ 24 $ 819 $ (1,956 ) $ (1,137 ) Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. In the ComEd territories the volume increase was primarily the result of an acquisition by Generation from an unrelated third party of the unrelated third partys supply obligations under the ComEd auction effective January 1, 2008. The price decrease in the ComEd territories was largely due to final reconciliation activity recorded in 2007 associated with the full requirements ComEd PPA which ended on December 31, 2006. In the PECO territories, the price increase reflects a favorable change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPA with Generation, in addition to the effects of the last scheduled rate increase under the PPA, which took effect in mid January 2007. The volume decrease in the PECO territories was primarily due to unfavorable weather conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. In the ComEd territories, decreased volumes were the result of the expiration of Generations PPA with ComEd effective December 31, 2006. The decrease was partially offset by higher prices received by Generation following the expiration of the PPA, under which Generation was receiving below market rates. With the expiration of the PPA, Generation is now receiving higher prices from ComEd under the forward supply contracts. In the PECO territories, higher prices were the result of a scheduled electric generation rate increase that took effect January 1, 2007. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The increase in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) 2008vs.2007 2007vs.2006 Volume $ (720 ) $ 2,782 Price 606 412 Increase (decrease) in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (114 ) $ 3,194 108 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in volumes is reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts in addition to lower volumes of generation sold to the market, including the termination of the Stateline PPA in October 2007. The increase in price was primarily the result of an overall increase in market prices and includes a $29 million increase in revenue related to the ComEd RFP. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily the result of higher volumes of generation sold to the market as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006. Retail gas sales. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Retail gas sales increased $48 million of which $74 million was due to higher realized prices offset by a $26 million decrease due to lower volumes as a result of decreased demand. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Retail gas sales decreased $91 million of which $53 million of the decrease was due to lower volumes as a result of lower demand and $38 million was due to lower realized prices. Trading Portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The trading portfolio increased $63 million which was due primarily to earnings from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Other revenue. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in other revenues was primarily due to the $223 million of income in 2007 associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line), partially offset by $187 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren and $14 million Salem oil spill settlement received in December 2008. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the oil spill settlement. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in other revenues was primarily due to a $408 million decrease for amounts recorded related to the Illinois Settlement, a decrease of $86 million due to the cessation of a tolling agreement and a $66 million decrease related to the termination of decommissioning collections from ComEd in accordance with the terms and conditions of the ICC order which only permitted such collections through December 31, 2006, partially offset by income of $223 million related to the termination of the State Line PPA. Additionally, a $40 million decrease in other revenues was attributable to the sale of Termoel&eacute;ctrica del Golfo (TEG) and Termoel&eacute;ctrica Pe&ntilde;oles (TEP) on February 9, 2007 and the resulting absence of revenue thereafter. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 Supply Source (in GWhs) 2008 2007 Variance %Change 2006 Variance %Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,342 140,359 (1,017 ) (0.7 )% 139,610 749 0.5 % Purchases 26,263 38,021 (11,758 ) (30.9 )% 38,297 (276 ) (0.7 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 10,569 11,270 (701 ) (6.2 )% 12,773 (1,503 ) (11.8 )% Total supply 176,174 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% (a) Supply source in GWhs at ownership. 109 The following table presents changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006. Generation considers the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense as a useful measure to analyze the profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Variance 2007 vs. 2006 Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Purchased power costs and tolling agreement costs (a) $ 767 $ (825 ) $ (58 ) $ 236 $ (47 ) $ 189 Generation costs (b) (89 ) (12 ) (101 ) 2 (5 ) (3 ) Fuel resale costs 99 (25 ) 74 (56 ) (38 ) (94 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. (623 ) n.m. n.m. 275 (Decrease) increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ (708 ) $ 367 (a) Variance for both periods presented excludes the net impact of $119 million loss recorded in 2007 associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Variance for 2008 as compared to 2007 excludes gains of approximately $53 million related to non performance claims for uranium supply agreements recorded in 2008. Variance for 2007 as compared to 2006 excludes the net impact of a $13 million one time settlement with the Department of Energy recorded in 2006 for uranium enrichment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. n.m. Not meaningful. Purchased Power Costs and Tolling Agreement Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to market conditions that resulted in decreased purchases from contracted units as well as decreased volumes due to the termination of the State Line PPA in October 2007. The decrease in volumes is also reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts. Generation realized overall higher prices for purchased power as a result of an overall increase in market prices. Further, Generations purchased power costs increased $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in the first quarter of 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to lower volumes needed to supply ComEd as a result of the expiration of the PPA at December 31, 2006. Generation incurred overall higher prices for purchased power, partially offset by a decrease of $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation cost includes fuel cost for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall lower generation costs for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the same period in 2007 due to decreased realized prices and lower volumes. Additionally, Generation has recorded gains of approximately $53 million related to non performance claims for uranium supply agreements. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 110 Partially offsetting the overall decrease in realized prices and gains associated with uranium supply agreement costs were increased costs for uranium and fossil fuel inventory impairments of $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Generation costs were relatively flat. The decrease in volume of $5 million was primarily due to lower fossil and hydroelectric generation, partially offset by higher nuclear generation. Fuel Resale Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Fuel resale cost includes retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs for 2008 as compared to 2007 consisted of overall higher prices resulting in an increase of $87 million, in addition to a retail gas inventory impairment of $12 million during the year 2008. Additionally, lower volumes caused by lower demand resulted in a decrease of $25 million. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs consisted of overall lower prices resulting in a decrease of $56 million. Additionally, a decrease of $38 million was the result of lower volumes caused by lower demand. Mark to market. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $414 million in 2008 compared to losses of $253 million in 2007. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $38 million in 2008 compared to gains of $81 million in 2007. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives under SFAS No. 157. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Mark to market losses on power derivative activities were $253 million in 2007 compared to gains of $180 million in 2006. Mark to market gains on fuel derivative activities were $81 million in 2007 compared to losses of $77 million in 2006. The following table presents average electric revenues, supply costs and margins per megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity sold during 2008 as compared 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006. As set forth in the table, average electric margins are defined as average electric revenues less average electric supply costs. Generation considers average electric margins useful measures to analyze the change in profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these margins are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. ($/MWh) 2008 2007 2008 vs.2007% Change 2006 2007 vs.2006% Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 55.50 $ 54.90 1.1 % $ 39.16 40.2 % Wholesale and retail electric sales (a) 59.99 54.59 9.9 % 51.03 7.0 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 58.35 54.70 6.7 % 43.60 25.5 % Average electric supply cost(b), (c) excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 19.87 $ 19.54 1.7 % $ 18.56 5.3 % Average margin excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 38.48 $ 35.16 9.4 % $ 25.04 40.4 % 111 (a) For year 2008, $2 million of a pre tax reduction in revenue from settlements related to the ComEd swap and $29M of pre tax increase in revenue from the ComEd RFP have been excluded from Electric sales to affiliates and included in Wholesale and retail electric sales. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales excluding the impact of mark to market hedging activities. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales and other sales for all periods presented. (c) For year 2007, excludes the net impact of the $119 million loss related to the execution of the Georgia Power PPA and costs related to the termination of the State Line PPA during 2007. The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2008, as compared to 2007 and 2006, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one (1) MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2008 2007 2006 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 94.5 % 93.9 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh(a), (b) $ 15.87 $ 14.46 $ 13.85 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. (b) For 2008, excludes the $53 million reduction in fuel expense related to uranium supply agreement non performance settlements. See note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The nuclear fleet capacity factor decreased primarily due to a higher number of scheduled refueling outage days. For 2008 and 2007, refueling outage days totaled 241 and 195, respectively, while non refueling outage days totaled 59 in both years. The lower number of net MWhs generated, the impact of inflation on labor and contracting costs and higher nuclear fuel costs plus the refueling outage costs associated with the higher number of refueling outage days resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2008 as compared 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The nuclear fleet capacity factor increased primarily due to fewer outage days. For 2007 and 2006, refueling outage days totaled 195 and 237, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 59 and 71, respectively. The higher number of net MWhs generated and lower costs due to fewer planned refueling outage days were offset by higher costs for labor, nuclear fuel, NRC reactor fees, security costs and material condition work, resulting in an increase in the production cost per MWh for 2007 as compared to 2006. 112 Operating and Maintenance Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Wages, salaries and benefits $ 112 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant 88 Nuclear decommissioning related activities 57 Accounts receivable reserve 22 Nuclear insurance credits 15 Corporate allocations 13 Non nuclear ARO adjustments 9 Contractor expenses (26 ) Stock based compensation (25 ) New nuclear plant development costs (22 ) Other 20 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 263 The $112 million increase in wages, salaries and benefits reflects the impact of inflation and the costs for the Generation nuclear security personnel hired to replace the external organization that previously provided security services. The $88 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs was primarily associated with the higher number of refueling outage days during 2008 as compared to 2007. The $57 million increase in nuclear decommissioning related activities was associated with the $47 million increase in decommissioning related activities related to the contractual elimination of income taxes associated with the decommissioning trust funds of the former ComEd and PECO nuclear generating units (Regulated Units) and the recognition of income of $19 million related to an ARO adjustment in 2008, compared to income of $29 million related to an ARO adjustment in 2007, representing reductions in the asset retirement obligation in excess of the asset retirement cost balances for the Unregulated Units. The $22 million increase in the accounts receivable reserve is the result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Economic Environment for additional information. The $15 million increase relates to a decrease in nuclear insurance credits accrued in 2008 as compared to 2007. The $13 million increase in corporate support service costs reflected an increase in a variety of BSC services allocated to Generation, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology and supply management services. The $9 million increase relates to non nuclear asset retirement obligation adjustments in 2008 and 2007. The $26 million decrease in contractor costs was primarily related to lower contractor security costs due to Generation no longer using an external organization for security at its nuclear plants (Generation has hired its own personnel to provide security services). The decrease was partially offset by inflationary increases on non outage contracting and services maintenance work at the nuclear plants and staff augmentation and maintenance work at the fossil and hydroelectric plants. The $25 million decrease in stock based compensation was the result of a decrease in Exelons stock price. 113 The $22 million decrease in new nuclear plant development costs reflects a reduction in costs associated with the possible construction of a nuclear power plant in Texas. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Wages, salaries and benefits $ 85 New Nuclear plant development costs 49 Nuclear decommissioning related activities 40 Contractor expenses 24 Corporate allocations 14 TEG and TEP related expenses (39 ) Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (32 ) Other 8 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 149 The $85 million increase in payroll, salaries and benefits reflected the impact of inflation as well as an increase in various direct fringe costs. The $49 million increase in new nuclear site development costs was due to costs incurred for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas, including fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. The $40 million increase in nuclear decommissioning related activities was primarily associated with the recognition of a credit of $29 million, compared to a credit of $149 million recognized in 2006, representing reductions in the asset retirement obligation in excess of the asset retirement cost balance for the Unregulated Units. Additionally, decommissioning related activities decreased by $66 million resulting from the termination of revenue collections on December 31, 2006 from ComEd, which likewise no longer required an offset through operating and maintenance expense, and decreased by $14 million due to the offset of certain income taxes associated with decommission related activity. The $24 million increase in contractor expense was primarily related to staff augmentation and maintenance work at the nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric plants. The $14 million increase in corporate support service costs reflected an increase in a variety of BSC services allocated to Generation, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology and supply management services. The $39 million decrease in expenses related to TEG and TEP was due to the sale of the investment in 2007. The $32 million decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs was associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006. Depreciation and Amortization. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the reassessment of the useful lives of several fossil facilities. The impact of the reassessment of the useful lives did not and will not result in a material change to Generations results of operations as compared to amounts recognized in periods prior to the change. 114 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to the reassessment of the useful lives of several fossil facilities and the write off of certain asset retirement costs in 2006. Taxes Other Than Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase was primarily due to increased payroll taxes and property taxes, partially offset by a gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Interest Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease in interest expense reflected lower interest on spent nuclear fuel obligations as a result of lower rates and an increase in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of the FIN 48 tax interest calculation in 2007, partially offset by increased interest from higher outstanding long term debt balances as a result of the September 2007 bond issuance and higher outstanding commercial paper balances. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, the increase in net interest expense was primarily attributable to an increase in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of the FIN 48 tax interest calculation and an increase in interest expense related to the bond issuance during the third quarter of 2007, partially offset by an interest payment accrued in 2006 for the settlement of a tax matter, a decline in the amount of commercial paper that was outstanding and an increase in average cash on hand balances during 2007 compared to 2006 Other, Net. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses in 2008 on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units due to adverse financial market conditions, the contractual elimination of income taxes associated with the decommissioning trust funds of the Regulated Units, realized losses on the trust funds of the Unregulated Units due to the execution of a tax planning strategy in 2008, and realized gains in 2007 on nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments of the Unregulated Units associated with changes in Generations investment strategy, partially offset by 2007 a gain on sale of TEG and TEP. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, the increase in other, net reflects a gain on sale of investments recognized in 2007 and realized gains associated with nuclear decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units recognized in other, net for 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds Unregulated Units $ (324 ) $ (b) $ (b) Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds Unregulated Units $ (39 ) $ 64 $ (1 ) Other than temporary impairment of decommissioning trust funds Unregulated Units(a) n/a $ (9 ) $ (3 ) 115 (a) As a result of certain NRC restrictions, Exelon and Generation were unable to demonstrate the ability and intent to hold the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments through a recovery period and, accordingly, recognized any unrealized holding losses immediately. After the adoption of the fair value option under SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, other than temporary impairments are no longer recognized since all changes in fair value are recognized in the Statement of Operations beginning January 1, 2008. (b) Unrealized gains (losses) were included in accumulated OCI on Exelons and Generations Consolidated Balance prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008. See Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities in Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the adoption of SFAS No. 159 related to the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments. Effective Income Tax Rate Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations decreased to 33.4% for 2008 from 40.2% in 2007. Generations effective tax rate decreased primarily as a result of recording tax benefits on realized and unrealized losses in its qualified nuclear decommissioning fund investments. The tax benefits on the realized and unrealized losses discussed above were recorded at a higher statutory tax rate than Generations remaining income from operations. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The effective tax rate was 40.2% for 2007 compared to 38.2% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was attributable to an increase in deferred tax expense associated with the generation portion of ComEds research and development settlement as well as ComEds and PECOs application of the indirect cost capitalization method settlement guidelines recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, realized gains recognized in the fourth quarter of 2007 by the qualified nuclear decommissioning trusts also contributed to the increase in the effective tax rate. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Discontinued Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. During 2008, Generation reduced its guarantee liabilities and recognized $38 million of income in discontinued operations related to the expiration of tax indemnifications in connection to a prior investment in Sithe Energies, Inc. (Sithe). Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, Generations Consolidated Statement of Income for 2007 reflects a $4 million (after tax) gain on the disposal of discontinued operations related primarily to Sithe, resulting from a settlement agreement between a subsidiary of Sithe, the Pennsylvania Attorney Generals Office and the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue regarding a previously disputed tax position asserted for the 2000 tax year. Generations Consolidated Statement of Income and Comprehensive Income for 2006 reflected a $4 million (after tax) gain on disposal of discontinued operations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. 116 Results of Operations ComEd 2008 2007 Favorable(Unfavorable)variance2008 vs. 2007 2006 Favorable(Unfavorable)variance2007 vs. 2006 Operating revenues $ 6,136 $ 6,104 $ 32 $ 6,101 $ 3 Purchased power expense 3,582 3,747 165 3,292 (455 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense 2,554 2,357 197 2,809 (452 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,125 1,091 (34 ) 745 (346 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 464 440 (24 ) 430 (10 ) Taxes other than income 298 314 16 303 (11 ) Total other operating expenses 1,887 1,845 (42 ) 2,254 409 Operating income 667 512 155 555 (43 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (348 ) (318 ) (30 ) (308 ) (10 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (8 ) (7 ) (1 ) (10 ) 3 Other, net 18 58 (40 ) 96 (38 ) Total other income and deductions (338 ) (267 ) (71 ) (222 ) (45 ) Income before income taxes 329 245 84 333 (88 ) Income taxes 128 80 (48 ) 445 365 Net income (loss) $ 201 $ 165 $ 36 $ (112 ) $ 277 Net Income. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. As more fully described below, ComEds net income for 2008 compared to 2007 reflected higher revenue net of purchased power expense, primarily driven by higher transmission rates effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008 and higher distribution rates effective September 16, 2008. In 2008, ComEd received a refund of Illinois Distribution Tax that also contributed to the increase in net income. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather; higher operating and maintenance expense, principally driven by disallowances arising from the 2007 Rate Case order and higher storm costs; higher depreciation and amortization expense; and higher interest expense. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. As more fully described below, ComEds net income (loss) for 2007 compared to 2006 reflected the impact of a goodwill impairment charge in 2006 partially offset by higher purchased power expense, higher operating and maintenance expense, and the impacts of the 2006 benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July and December 2006 ICC rate orders. In 2007, ComEd incurred increased costs associated with transitioning from the rate freeze period, including implementing the rate relief programs. Operating Revenues and Purchased Power Expense. ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes revenue net of purchased power is a useful measurement of its performance because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, effective January 2, 2007, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with 117 GAAP. However, the revenue net of purchased power figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower RevenueNet ofPurchasedPower Retail energy and customer choice $ (98 ) $ (108 ) $ 10 Transmission 65 11 54 Volume delivery 2 n/a 2 Weather delivery (38 ) n/a (38 ) Wholesale contracts (58 ) (64 ) 6 Rate relief program 27 n/a 27 Energy efficiency and demand response programs 25 n/a 25 2007 Distribution Rate Case 75 n/a 75 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 5 n/a 5 Other 27 (4 ) 31 Total (decrease) increase $ 32 $ (165 ) $ 197 Retail energy and customer choice Revenue net of purchased power for 2008 compared to 2007 reflects the one day impact of lower retail rates for January 1, 2007 before the expiration of the rate freeze and implementation of the rate increase on January 2, 2007. Revenue. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase electricity from a competitive electric supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied electricity and generation service. Customer choice does not affect ComEds operating income because the cost of the procured power is passed along to customers without mark up. As of December 31, 2008, several competitive electric suppliers had been granted approval to serve retail electricity customers in the ComEd service territory. There are currently a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative suppliers. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, 51% and 48%, respectively, of electricity delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2008 2007 Retail customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric supplier: Number of customers at period end 43,100 44,200 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % 1 % Volume (GWhs) 46,950 45,020 Percentage of total retail deliveries 51 % 48 % Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to the impact of ComEd customers electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. 118 Transmission Revenue. ComEd has a FERC approved formula rate for its transmission rates. ComEd experienced increased revenue in 2008 due to the impact of higher transmission rates effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Purchased Power. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM members became obligated to pay Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustments/Assignment (SECA) collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges, because ComEd is both a transmission owner and a load serving entity within PJM. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. These charges were subject to refund and dispute before FERC. The increase in purchased power expense during 2008 is due to the impact of a reduction of SECA reserves for potential refunds, which were recorded in 2007. Management of ComEd believes that appropriate reserves representing managements best estimate have been established in the event that some portion of the remaining SECA collections that are not settled are required to be refunded. Volume Delivery Revenue. While ComEds delivery volumes, exclusive of the effects of weather increased slightly compared to 2007 on a full year basis, during the fourth quarter of 2008 ComEd experienced a decrease in volumes. ComEd believes the trend from the fourth quarter will continue in 2009, due to the economic downturn. Weather Delivery Revenue. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business in ComEds service territory. Cooling degree days were 25% lower for 2008 compared to 2007, partially offset by an 11% increase in heating degree days. Wholesale Contracts Revenue. ComEds revenues decreased $58 million primarily due to the expiration of certain wholesale contracts in 2007. Purchased Power. ComEds purchased power decreased $64 million primarily due to the expiration of certain wholesale contracts in 2007. Rate relief program Revenue. ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2008 compared to 2007. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues for 2008. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 119 Energy efficiency and demand response programs Revenue. As a result of the 2007 Illinois Settlement, utilities are allowed recovery of costs for energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, ComEd recognized $25 million of revenue associated with these programs. This amount was offset by an equal amount of operating and maintenance expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 2007 Distribution Rate Case Revenue. The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in a $75 million increase in revenues for 2008 compared to 2007. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement Revenue. ComEd paid $18 million and $23 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments are recorded as a reduction in revenues; therefore, the lower payment resulted in a net increase in revenues for 2008. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower RevenueNet ofPurchasedPower Rate changes and mix $ 748 $ 1,346 $ (598 ) Rate relief program (33 ) n/a (33 ) Transmission 115 (17 ) 132 Weather 141 83 58 Delivery Volume 20 n/a 20 Customer Choice (917 ) (917 ) n/a Wholesale contracts (64 ) (50 ) (14 ) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (23 ) n/a (23 ) Other 16 10 6 Total increase (decrease) $ 3 $ 455 $ (452 ) Rate changes and mix Revenue. The increase in revenue related to rate changes and mix primarily reflects the end of the rate freeze and the implementation of market based rates for electricity and the impact of the distribution rate increase effective January 2, 2007. In 2006, most customers were charged a bundled rate that included distribution, transmission services and the cost of electricity. Additionally, under Illinois law, no competitive transition charges (CTCs) are permitted to be collected after 2006. As of January 2007, ComEd began billing customers on an unbundled basis, which includes separate charges for distribution, transmission and electricity. Given the relatively small increase of $83 million approved by the ICC in the annual distribution revenue requirements, the majority of the change in 120 year over year pricing was driven by the inclusion of market based electricity rates. The market based electricity rates were determined through a reverse auction competitive bidding process. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Additionally starting in 2007, ComEd began recovering former manufactured gas plant remediation costs from customers. Purchased Power. Purchased power increased due to higher electricity prices. The PPA with Generation terminated at the end of 2006. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under supplier forward contracts and from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Rate Relief Programs Revenue. As part of its programs for customer rate relief approved and included in the 2007 Illinois Settlement, ComEd funded a portion of the credits issued to customers. These credits are recorded as a reduction of revenues when issued to customers. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Rate Relief Programs. Transmission Revenue. In 2007, ComEd experienced increased revenue from the provision of transmission services resulting from increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Additionally, FERC issued an order in ComEds transmission rate case conditionally approving ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate and associated rate increase effective May 1, 2007, subject to refund. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Transmission Rate Case. Purchased Power. In 2006, ComEd recorded $5 million of net SECA collections. Also during 2006, ComEd adjusted its reserve for possible SECA refunds. In 2007, based on FERC approval of certain settlements, ComEd reduced its reserve for possible SECA refunds to reflect managements best estimate of the remaining amounts that will ultimately be required to be refunded. Management of ComEd believes that appropriate reserves have been established in the event that some portion of the remaining SECA collections that are not settled are required to be refunded. Weather Revenue. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions for 2007 compared to 2006. In ComEds service territory, heating degree days were 8% higher and cooling degree days were 19% higher during 2007 compared to 2006. Purchased Power. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather resulted from higher demand due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Delivery volume Revenue. The increase in revenues for the provision of distribution services primarily resulted from an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers. 121 Customer Choice Revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, 48% and 23%, respectively, of electricity delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 44,200 19,600 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % (a) Volume (GWhs) 45,020 20,787 Percentage of total retail deliveries 48 % 23 % (a) Less than one percent. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Wholesale Contracts Revenue. ComEds revenue decreased $64 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. Purchased Power. ComEds purchased power decreased $50 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement Revenue. ComEd paid $23 million under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago, which was recorded as a reduction of revenue. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Energy efficiency and demand response programs (a) $ 25 2007 Rate Case order (b) 22 Wages and salaries 15 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (c) 12 Storm related costs 8 Corporate allocations 6 Post rate freeze period transition expenses incurred in 2007 (26 ) Contracting (23 ) Injuries and damages (9 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 34 122 (a) These items are offset by an equal increase in revenues. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred operating and maintenance expenses. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (c) The allowance for uncollectible accounts expense increased during 2008 due to increased customer account charge offs and the impact of rate relief credits that reduced this expense during 2007. Management believes the current overall negative economic conditions contributed to the increase in uncollectible accounts expense in 2008 and may negatively impact future uncollectible accounts expense relative to historical levels. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 201 Contracting 31 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (b) 26 Wages and salaries 23 Storm related costs 19 Fringe benefits (c) 14 Corporate allocations 11 Materials and supplies expense 8 Post rate freeze period transition expenses (d) 7 Postage 7 Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 346 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC rehearing order in 2006, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses including severance costs, MGP costs, procurement case and rate case costs. (b) This increase resulted from a change in collectability assumptions in response to changes in the customer payment patterns, changes in customer prices, changes in termination practices and certain changes in business and economic conditions. (c) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits primarily due to increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs. (d) Includes increased costs associated with the Rate Relief programs and other costs associated with transitioning to the post rate freeze period. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. ComEds 2008 annual goodwill impairment assessment, performed in the fourth quarter, resulted in no additional impairment. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The assessment indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2007 annual goodwill impairment assessment, which was performed in the fourth quarter, resulted in no additional impairment. ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2007. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 123 Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 19 $ 15 2007 Rate Case asset disallowances 2 (a) Other amortization expense 3 (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 24 $ 10 (a) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. Taxes Other Than Income. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Taxes other than income decreased for 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of a $14 million refund of 2005 Illinois distribution tax received in 2008. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Taxes other than income increased for 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a $7 million refund of Illinois distribution tax received in 2006. Interest Expense, Net. The changes in interest expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions $ 3 (a) $ (32 )(a) Interest expense on debt 29 (b) 19 (b) Amortization of debt related costs 20 (c) Other (2 ) 3 Increase in interest expense, net $ 30 $ 10 (a) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) The increase resulted from higher debt balances. (c) In 2007, ComEds interest expense, net reflected the initial amortization of the regulatory asset related to the early debt retirement costs authorized by the ICC in 2006. 124 Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 ICC rate order CTC amortization $ $ (87 )(a) Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (36 )(b) 41 (b) Gain on disposal of assets and investments, net 4 Other (4 ) 4 Decrease in other, net $ (40 ) $ (38 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded a benefit associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. (b) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. ComEds effective income tax rate for 2008 was 38.9% compared to 32.7% for 2007. This increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The effective income tax rate was 32.7% for 2007, compared to 133.6% for 2006. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the non deductible impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill accounting. The non deductible goodwill impairment charge decreased income (loss) before income taxes which increased the effective tax rate from continuing operations by 81.6% in 2006. The balance of the reduction was due to a benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization change in 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 2006 % Change2007 vs. 2006 Full service (a) Residential 28,389 29,374 (3.4 )% 28,330 3.7 % Small commercial & industrial 14,937 16,468 (9.3 )% 26,597 (38.1 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,045 1,949 (46.4 )% 12,595 (84.5 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 578 766 (24.5 )% 2,254 (66.0 )% Total full service 44,949 48,557 (7.4 )% 69,776 (30.4 )% Delivery only (b) Residential (c) n.m n.m. Small commercial & industrial 18,550 17,380 6.7 % 5,505 215.7 % Large commercial & industrial 27,764 27,122 2.4 % 15,282 77.5 % Public authorities & electric railroads 636 518 22.8 % 100.0 % Total delivery only 46,950 45,020 4.3 % 20,787 116.6 % Total retail deliveries 91,899 93,577 (1.8 )% 90,563 3.3 % 125 (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. (c) As of December 31, 2008, there are a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative suppliers with total activity of less than 1 GWh and $1 million. n.m. Not meaningful. Electric Revenue 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 2006 % Change2007 vs. 2006 Full service (a) Residential $ 3,284 $ 3,161 3.9 % $ 2,453 28.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,542 1,619 (4.8 )% 2,060 (21.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 90 154 (41.6 )% 700 (78.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 52 67 (22.4 )% 137 (51.1 )% Total full service 4,968 5,001 (0.7 )% 5,350 (6.5 )% Delivery only (b) Residential (c) n.m n.m. Small commercial & industrial 289 261 10.7 % 85 207.1 % Large commercial & industrial 295 276 6.9 % 155 78.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 7 5 40.0 % n.m. Total delivery only 591 542 9.0 % 240 125.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,559 5,543 0.3 % 5,590 (0.8 )% Other revenue (d) 577 561 2.9 % 511 9.8 % Total electric and other revenue $ 6,136 $ 6,104 0.5 % $ 6,101 n.m. (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd, which include the cost of electricity and the cost of transmission and distribution of the electricity. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. (c) As of December 31, 2008, there are a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative suppliers with total activity of less than 1 GWh and $1 million. (d) Other revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. n.m. Not meaningful. 126 Results of Operations PECO 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)Variance2008 vs. 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)Variance2007 vs. 2006 Operating revenues $ 5,567 $ 5,613 $ (46 ) $ 5,168 $ 445 Purchased power expense and fuel expense 3,018 2,983 (35 ) 2,702 (281 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,549 2,630 (81 ) 2,466 164 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 731 630 (101 ) 628 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 854 773 (81 ) 710 (63 ) Taxes other than income 265 280 15 262 (18 ) Total other operating expenses 1,850 1,683 (167 ) 1,600 (83 ) Operating income 699 947 (248 ) 866 81 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (226 ) (248 ) 22 (266 ) 18 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) (7 ) (9 ) (9 ) 2 Other, net 18 45 (27 ) 30 15 Total other income and deductions (224 ) (210 ) (14 ) (245 ) 35 Income before income taxes 475 737 (262 ) 621 116 Income taxes 150 230 80 180 (50 ) Net income 325 507 (182 ) 441 66 Preferred stock dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 321 $ 503 $ (182 ) $ 437 $ 66 Net Income. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. PECOs net income for 2008 compared to 2007 decreased due to lower operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense, reflecting unfavorable weather conditions, as well as higher operating and maintenance expenses primarily driven by an increase in the allowance for uncollectible accounts expense and increased scheduled CTC amortization, which was in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act, partially offset by the decrease in interest expense due to lower long term debt balances owed to PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT). Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. PECOs net income for 2007 compared to 2006 increased primarily due to higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense, which reflected increased sales from favorable weather conditions, increased usage across all customer classes for both electric and gas, the completion of certain authorized rate increases that began in 2006 and the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute, as well as the recognition of income resulting from a reduction in the reserve after the successful PURTA tax appeal, partially offset by higher scheduled CTC amortization, which was in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. Operating Revenues, Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power for electric and revenue net of fuel expense for gas. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power and revenue net of fuel expense 127 are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower andFuel Expense Net Weather $ (84 ) $ (36 ) $ (48 ) $ (26 ) $ (20 ) $ (6 ) $ (110 ) $ (56 ) $ (54 ) Pricing (1 ) 28 (29 ) (1 ) 28 (29 ) Settlement of PJM billing dispute 10 (10 ) 10 (10 ) Transmission (4 ) 7 (11 ) (4 ) 7 (11 ) Volume 27 13 14 (11 ) (11 ) 16 2 14 Rate increases 8 8 54 54 62 62 Customer choice 6 6 6 6 Spot market activity 9 9 9 9 Off system gas activity (25 ) (27 ) 2 (25 ) (27 ) 2 Other 10 10 (9 ) (6 ) (3 ) 1 (6 ) 7 Total increase (decrease) $ (29 ) $ 45 $ (74 ) $ (17 ) $ (10 ) $ (7 ) $ (46 ) $ 35 $ (81 ) Weather Revenues. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating degree days and cooling degree days were 3% and 11% lower, respectively. Heating degree days and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool, respectively, a home or business. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was due to lower demand as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Pricing Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues as a result of pricing reflected the reduction in distribution rates, for a total of $36 million, made to refund the PURTA tax settlement to customers. This rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the 128 regulatory liability related to the PURTA tax settlement that is reflected in taxes other than income. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenues of approximately $28 million related to higher energy market prices charged to certain large commercial and industrial customers (this increase is completely offset by a related increase in purchased power expense and has no impact on PECOs operating income), as well as other factors that were not individually significant. Purchased Power. The increase in purchased power as a result of pricing reflected the increased market prices for electricity, at which PECO procures electricity on behalf of certain large commercial and industrial customers. Settlement of PJM Billing Dispute Purchased Power. PECOs purchased power increased $10 million due to the impact of the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL during 2007. Transmission Revenues. Transmission revenue represents revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. Wholesale transmission revenue received from PJM decreased in 2008 as this revenue is based on the prior years summer peak, and the summer peak in 2007 was lower than the summer peak in 2006. Purchased Power. Transmission expenses represent wholesale transmission costs and other costs allocated by PJM, including charges for transmission system stabilization, default charges and regional transmission expansion plan costs. The increase in transmission expense was due to increased allocated costs from PJM related to charges for transmission system stabilization, partially offset by decreased wholesale transmission costs. Volume Revenues. The increase in electric revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across the residential customer class and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes. The decrease in gas revenues as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected decreased usage across the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. During the fourth quarter of 2008, PECO experienced a decrease in volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, and believes this trend may continue in 2009 due to the economic downturn. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across the residential customer class and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes. The decrease in fuel expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected decreased usage across the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Rate increases Revenues. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases reflected the impact of the scheduled generation rate increase that became effective in mid January 2007 and remained in effect throughout 2008. This electric generation rate increase represented the last 129 scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase did not affect operating income as PECO incurred corresponding and offsetting purchased power expense under its PPA with Generation. The increase in gas revenues was due to higher realized prices for natural gas, which reflected PAPUC approved rates adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas cost clause. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2008 was 11% higher than the average rate for 2007. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power attributable to electric rate increases reflected the impact of the completion of the last scheduled generation rate increase under the PPA with Generation in mid January 2007. The increase in fuel expense reflected higher realized natural gas prices. Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2008 2007 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 24,800 29,200 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 2 % The increase in electric revenue and purchase power expense associated with customer choice reflected increased usage, exclusive of the effects of weather, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class and customers, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class, returning to PECO as their electric supplier. Spot market activity Revenues. Spot market electricity sales revenue results from surplus hourly energy that occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load exceeds the actual load on the delivery day. Spot market revenue is passed through as a credit to purchased power expense to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Purchased Power. Spot market electricity purchases result from scheduled energy transactions that are insufficient to cover the actual load and, occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load is not enough to serve the actual load on the delivery day. Also, spot market purchased power expense reflects the net spot market sales and purchases activity that is passed through to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Therefore, spot market activity has no impact on PECOs operating income. Off system gas activity Revenues. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. Fuel Expense. Fuel expense related to off system gas sales includes the cost of gas sold in the wholesale market. 130 Other Revenues. The increase in other electric revenues reflects various factors, none of which were individually significant. The decrease in other gas revenues reflects decreased late payment fees and other various factors, none of which were individually significant. Fuel Expense. The decrease in other fuel expense reflects various factors, none of which were individually significant. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower andFuel Expense Net Weather $ 108 $ 47 $ 61 $ 119 $ 98 $ 21 $ 227 $ 145 $ 82 Pricing (20 ) (3 ) (17 ) (20 ) (3 ) (17 ) Settlement of PJM billing dispute (10 ) 10 (10 ) 10 Transmission 4 (1 ) 5 4 (1 ) 5 Volume 82 32 50 4 6 (2 ) 86 38 48 Rate increases (decreases) 195 184 11 (114 ) (114 ) 81 70 11 Customer choice 8 8 8 8 Spot market activity 7 7 7 7 Off system gas activity 22 21 1 22 21 1 Other 19 (2 ) 21 11 8 3 30 6 24 Total increase $ 403 $ 262 $ 141 $ 42 $ 19 $ 23 $ 445 $ 281 $ 164 Weather Revenues. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating degree days and cooling degree days were 16% and 15% higher, respectively. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was due to higher demand as a result of favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Pricing Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues as a result of pricing primarily reflected the effects of rate blocking, whereby customer charges per unit of energy delivered were reduced when usage by certain commercial and industrial customers exceeds a certain threshold. Lower energy market prices charged to certain large commercial and industrial customers also contributed to the decrease in revenues, but as this decrease is completely offset by a related decrease in purchased power expense, it did not impact PECOs operating income. 131 Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power as a result of pricing reflected the decreased market prices for electricity, at which PECO procures electricity on behalf of certain large commercial and industrial customers. Settlement of PJM billing dispute Purchased Power. PECOs purchased power expense decreased $10 million due to the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL in 2007. Transmission Revenues. Transmission revenues represent revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner. PECO earns revenue through PJM for the use of PECOs transmission facilities. Wholesale transmission revenue received from PJM increased in 2007 as this revenue is based on the prior years summer peak, and the summer peak in 2006 was higher than the summer peak in 2005. Purchased Power. Transmission expenses represent wholesale transmission costs and other costs allocated by PJM. Volume Revenues. The increase in revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in expenses as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes Rate increases (decreases) Revenues. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases of $195 million reflected $184 million related to a scheduled electric generation rate increase, which was effective for customer bills for electric generation service delivered after customers January 2007 meter readings. This electric generation rate increase represented the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase did not affect operating income as PECO incurred corresponding and offsetting purchased power expense under its PPA with Generation. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases also reflected $11 million associated with the completion in January 2007 of scheduled CTC and distribution rate increases that began in 2006. The decrease in gas revenues was due to lower realized market prices for natural gas, which reflected PAPUC approved rates adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas cost clause. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2007 was 17% lower than the average rate for 2006. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to electric rate increases reflected the scheduled generation rate increase under the PPA with Generation, which directly offset the increase in revenues. The decrease in fuel expense reflected lower realized market prices for natural gas. 132 Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 29,200 34,400 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 2 % The increase in electric revenue and purchased power expense associated with customer choice reflected customers, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class, returning to PECO as their electric supplier. Spot market activity Revenues. Spot market electricity sales revenue results from surplus hourly energy that occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load exceeds the actual load on the delivery day. Spot market revenue is passed through as a credit to purchased power expense to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Purchased Power. Spot market electricity purchases result from scheduled energy transactions that are insufficient to cover the actual load and, occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load is not enough to serve the actual load on the delivery day. Also, spot market purchased power expense reflects the net spot market sales and purchases activity that is passed through to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Therefore, spot market activity has no impact on PECOs operating income. Off system gas activity Revenues. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. Fuel Expense. The fuel expense related to off system gas sales includes the cost of gas sold in the wholesale market. Other Revenues. The increase in electric and gas revenues reflected increased late payment fees and other factors, none of which was individually significant. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power expense and the increase in fuel expense were due to various factors, none of which was individually significant. 133 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ 89 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits 4 Contracting 1 Injuries and damages expense (2 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 101 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ 13 Contracting (a) 12 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits 6 Environmental reserve (b) 4 Injuries and damages expense (c) 3 Incremental storm related costs (39 ) Severance related expenses (5 ) PSEG merger integration costs incurred in 2006 (4 ) Other 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) Reflects higher 2007 contracting expense primarily associated with vegetation management services and tax consulting. (b) Reflects lower expense in 2006 due to a settlement related to a Superfund site. (c) Reflects higher 2006 storm related costs primarily associated with a significant storm in the third quarter of 2006. Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense. The additional expense is primarily due to updated reserve estimates to reflect anticipated increases in customer account charge offs associated with recent and upcoming increases in customer terminations, as well as, the further deterioration in actual and projected collections of PECOs higher risk customer accounts receivable. PECO experienced an increase in the aging of its high risk accounts receivable balances. The higher expense is in part as a result of a previous temporary suspension of certain collection processes during a billing system conversion project in 2006 and 2007. Finally, enrollment has also increased in customer assistance programs for low income customers, which results in the eventual forgiveness of certain outstanding account balances. Management believes the current overall negative economic conditions are contributing to the increase in uncollectible accounts expense in 2008 and may negatively impact future uncollectible accounts expense relative to historical levels. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 CTC amortization (a) $ 78 $ 69 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (9 ) Other 3 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 81 $ 63 134 (a) PECOs CTC amortization is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $9 million in 2006. The new system was implemented in 2006. Taxes Other Than Income. The decrease in taxes other than income for 2008 compared to 2007 and the increase in 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs.2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs.2006 PURTA Amortization (a) $ (36 ) $ Reduction of reserve related to PURTA tax appeal (b) 17 (17 ) Sales and use tax 3 5 Taxes on utility revenues (c) 2 25 State franchise tax adjustment in 2006 (d) 7 Other (1 ) (2 ) (Decrease) increase in taxes other than income $ (15 ) $ 18 (a) The decrease is due to the amortization of the regulatory liability recorded in connection with the 2007 PURTA settlement which began in January 2008. The impact of the amortization on operating income is offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in the distribution rates to refund the PURTA taxes to customers. (b) On March 27, 2007, PECO prevailed in a Pennsylvania Supreme Court case in which PECO had contested the assessment of PURTA taxes applicable to 1997. As a result, PECO reduced the reserve associated with this matter. (c) The increase in tax expense in 2008 compared to 2007 was due to a gross receipts tax rate increase that became effective on January 1, 2008, partially offset by a decrease in revenues. The increase in tax expense in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to the increase in revenues. These increases were offset by corresponding increases in revenues, as these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities. (d) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to lower long term debt balances owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Other, Net. The decrease in other, net for 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the impacts of interest income recorded in 2007 as a result of the successful PURTA tax appeal and interest income recorded in 2007 related to the SSCM settlement, partially offset by an increase in interest income related to uncertain income tax positions. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of other, net. The increase in other, net for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to interest income recorded as a result of the successful PURTA tax appeal and interest income related to uncertain tax positions, partially offset by the impacts of a 2006 investment tax credit refund and a 2006 research and development credit refund. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of other, net. Effective Income Tax Rate Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. PECOs effective income tax rate was 31.6% for 2008 compared to 31.2% for 2007. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007 partially offset by reduced income in 2008 while permanent differences remained relatively constant. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 135 Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. PECOs effective income tax rate was 31.2% for 2007 compared to 29.0% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an investment tax credit refund and a research and development credit refund in 2006, partially offset by the benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Full service (a) Residential 13,287 13,446 (1.2 )% 12,796 5.1 % Small commercial & industrial 8,211 8,288 (0.9 )% 7,818 6.0 % Large commercial & industrial 16,474 16,522 (0.3 )% 15,898 3.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 909 930 (2.3 )% 906 2.6 % Total full service 38,881 39,186 (0.8 )% 37,418 4.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 30 42 (28.6 )% 61 (31.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 469 571 (17.9 )% 671 (14.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 3 14 (78.6 )% 35 (60.0 )% Total delivery only 502 627 (19.9 )% 767 (18.3 )% Total retail deliveries 39,383 39,813 (1.1 )% 38,185 4.3 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Full service (a) Residential $ 1,916 $ 1,948 (1.6 )% $ 1,780 9.4 % Small commercial & industrial 1,028 1,042 (1.3 )% 943 10.5 % Large commercial & industrial 1,406 1,386 1.4 % 1,286 7.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 87 89 (2.2 )% 83 7.2 % Total full service 4,437 4,465 (0.6 )% 4,092 9.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 2 4 (50.0 )% 5 (20.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 25 30 (16.7 )% 36 (16.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 0.0 % 1 (100.0 )% Total delivery only 27 34 (20.6 )% 42 (19.0 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,464 4,499 (0.8 )% 4,134 8.8 % Other revenue (c) 282 276 2.2 % 238 16.0 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,746 $ 4,775 (0.6 )% $ 4,372 9.2 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 136 PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Retail sales 56,110 58,968 (4.8 )% 50.578 16.6 % Transportation 27,624 27,632 0.0 % 25,527 8.3 % Total 83,734 86,600 (3.3 )% 76,105 13.8 % Revenue 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Retail sales $ 795 $ 784 1.4 % $ 770 1.8 % Transportation 19 17 11.8 % 16 6.3 % Resales and other 7 37 (81.1 )% 10 n.m. Total gas revenue $ 821 $ 838 (2.0 )% $ 796 5.3 % n.m. Not meaningful Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $957 million, $4.8 billion, $952 million and $574 million, respectively. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. In the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a new letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement for certain tax exempt financings supported by first mortgage bonds. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. To manage cash flows and its capital structure, as more fully described below, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2008, 2007 or 2006. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. 137 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. During 2008, Exelons unfunded status of its pension plans increased significantly, primarily due to lower than expected 2008 asset returns, which is expected to result in increased benefit costs and required funding contributions in future years. Such increases could be material to 2009 and subsequent years. The Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (WRERA), which was signed into law on December 23, 2008, grants plan sponsors relief from funding requirements and benefit restrictions, and also provides some technical corrections to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act). One such technical correction, referred to as asset smoothing, allows the use of asset averaging, including expected returns (subject to certain limitations), for a 24 month period in the determination of funding requirements. Exelon has not yet determined whether it will elect this option. If Exelon elects the asset smoothing option, it would provide Exelon the opportunity to defer certain contributions to later years or potentially mitigate future contributions through market recovery. If Exelon does not elect the asset smoothing option, the minimum pension contributions as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Act, as well as discretionary contributions to avoid benefit restrictions, are expected to be approximately $162 million, $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion and $664 million in 2009, 2010 2011, 2012 2013 and 2014, respectively, with an aggregate of $4 billion during the periods. If Exelon elected the asset smoothing option, the minimum pension contributions are expected to be approximately $162 million, $832 million, $2.6 billion and $578 million in 2009, 2010 2011, 2012 2013 and 2014, respectively, with an aggregate of $4.1 billion during the periods. The expected increase in minimum required contributions for pension and OPEB costs through 2014 that cannot be funded from cash from operations may need to be funded through external financings. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons pension plans and see Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations within Liquidity and Capital Resources for the expected pension minimum funding requirements, including discretionary contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions, for the years 2009 2013. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified nuclear decommissioning trust fund to a qualified nuclear decommissioning trust fund. As a result of recent interpretative guidance published by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to this provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008, which resulted in net positive cash flow of approximately $280 million in total for 2008 and 2009 combined. In addition, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The ultimate outcome of this matter could result in unfavorable or favorable impacts to Exelons and ComEds results of operations, cash flows and financial positions, and such impacts could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 138 The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ending December 31, 2008 and 2007: 2008 2007 Variance Net income $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1 Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,400 2,845 555 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (230 ) (204 ) (26 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (383 ) (365 ) (18 ) Counterparty collateral, net 1,027 (516 ) 1,543 Net cash flows provided by operations $ 6,551 $ 4,496 $ 2,055 (a) Includes depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, pension and other postretirement benefits expense, other decommissioning related activities, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment charges, pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments and other non cash items. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on non cash operating activities. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2008 and 2007 by Registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ 6,551 $ 4,496 Generation 4,445 2,994 ComEd 1,079 520 PECO 969 980 Changes in Exelons, Generations and ComEds cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in the respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. The significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Exelon In 2007, Exelon contributed $50 million to the Exelon Foundation, a nonconsolidated not for profit Illinois corporation. The Exelon Foundation was established in the fourth quarter of 2007 to serve educational and environmental philanthropic purposes. The Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 was enacted in the first quarter of 2008 and includes an incentive that allows companies to claim an accelerated depreciation deduction for Federal income tax purposes equal to 50% of the cost basis of certain property placed in service during 2008 and to a lesser extent in 2009. Exelon received $248 million in 2008 as a result of this special tax depreciation provision. Generation During 2008, Generation had net collections of counterparty collateral of $1,029 million compared to $(518) million of net disbursements of counterparty collateral in 2007 and $431 million of net collections of counterparty collateral in 2006. The increase in collections was primarily due to changes in market conditions that resulted in an increased mark to market asset position. When Generation is in a mark to market liability position and is required to post collateral with its counterparties, the collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, commercial paper or letters of credit. 139 During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $274 million in 2008 and $331 million in 2007. Generation received a net cash payment from State Line of approximately $228 million, after adjustments, in consideration for the termination of the State Line PPA and the purchase of coal inventories on hand (and in transit) and other assets. During 2008 and 2007, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd under its supplier forward agreement and its PPA with ComEd, which expired on December 31, 2006, increased (decreased) by $99 million and $(137) million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, Generations accounts receivable from PECO under its PPA with PECO increased (decreased) by $6 million and $(32) million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, Generation had net payments of approximately $123 million and net receipts of approximately $28 million, respectively, related to option premiums, primarily due to greater hedging activity in 2008 compared to 2007. ComEd As a result of upgraded credit ratings to investment grade, ComEd has been making monthly payments to its energy suppliers, including Generation, under supplier forward contracts since April 2008. Prior to the credit ratings upgrade, ComEd made semi monthly payments to its energy suppliers. Starting in June 2008, ComEd also began procuring power and renewable energy credits under its request for proposal (RFP) contracts and started to settle the financial swap with Generation. During 2008 and 2007, ComEds payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $99 million and $(137) million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers increased by $41 million and $72 million, respectively. As part of the 2007 Illinois Settlement and its rate relief programs, ComEd contributed approximately $13 million and $41 million to rate relief programs in 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the rate relief programs. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, ComEd had net over recovered energy costs and net under recovered energy costs of $29 million and $97 million, respectively. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ (3,378 ) $ (2,909 ) Generation (1,967 ) (1,424 ) ComEd (958 ) (1,015 ) PECO (377 ) (337 ) 140 Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2008 and projected amounts for 2009 are as follows: 2008 2009 Generation (a) $ 1,699 $ 1,957 ComEd 953 1,000 PECO 392 416 Other (b) 73 71 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 3,117 $ 3,444 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Projected capital expenditures and other investments by the Registrants are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Approximately 46% of the projected 2009 capital expenditures at Generation are for the acquisition of nuclear fuel, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Actual 2008 capital expenditures were higher than the projected 2008 capital expenditures previously disclosed in the 2007 Annual Report on Form 10 K as a result of accelerating capital expenditures in 2008 to take advantage of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 which provides accelerated tax depreciation benefits for assets purchased and placed in service during the year. Exelon anticipates that Generations capital expenditures during 2009 will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. As discussed under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, Generation has begun the application process that would allow for the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas, and Generation is considering the development of a 600 megawatt combined cycle natural gas plant in Pennsylvania. While Generation has not made a decision to build these plants, should Generation decide to build these or other plants in the future, substantial additional resources would be required. Such capital projects would have a material impact on the use of Exelons and Generations capital resources. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 51% and 52% of the projected 2009 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve the reliability of their respective transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer growth including capacity expansion. ComEd and PECO are each continuing to evaluate their total 2009 capital spending requirements due to the recent decline in economic conditions and projections of load growth, which may reduce total 2009 capital expenditures. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund their capital expenditures during 2009 by internally generated funds and the issuance of debt. Other significant investing activities for Exelon and Generation for 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $9 million and $93 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Generation During 2007, Generation received approximately $42 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to its retired units. 141 On February 9, 2007, Tamuin International Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Generation, sold its 49.5% ownership interests in TEG and TEP to a subsidiary of AES Corporation for $95 million in cash plus certain purchase price adjustments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) used in financing activities for 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ (2,213 ) $ (1,500 ) Generation (1,470 ) (1,571 ) ComEd (161 ) 547 PECO (587 ) (638 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2008 and 2007 by registrant was as follows: Company Issuance of long term debt in 2008 Use of proceeds ComEd $700 million of First Mortgage 5.80% Bonds, Series 108, due March 15, 2018 Used to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility, to provide for the retirement at scheduled maturity in May 2008 of $120 million of First Mortgage bonds, Series 83, and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038 Used to retire $295 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, to refinance $155 million of trust preferred securities and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (a)(b) Used to refinance $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (a)(b) Used to refinance $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 (a)(b) Used to refinance a portion of the outstanding tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, 2003 B and 2003 D, due May 15, 2017, November 1, 2019 and January 15, 2014, respectively. PECO $150 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 4.00% due December 1, 2012 Used to refinance First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable auction rate due December 1, 2012. PECO $500 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.35% due March 1, 2018 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. PECO $300 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.60% Series due October 15, 2013 Used to refinance short term debt. 142 (a) First Mortgage bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were issued to refinance variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) During the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement to variable rate tax exempt bonds. The new facility and letters of credit issued under the new facility will expire by June 27, 2009. Company Issuance of long term debt in 2007 Use of proceeds Generation $700 million of 6.20% Senior Notes, due October 1, 2017 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. Generation $46 million of Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 Will be used to finance a portion of the construction and installation costs of emissions control facilities at Keystone Generating Station. ComEd $300 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to refinance outstanding commercial paper and to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility. ComEd $425 million of First Mortgage 6.15% Bonds, Series 106, due September 15, 2017 Used to repay borrowings made under its revolving credit agreement. PECO $175 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.70% Series due March 15, 2037 Used to supplement working capital previously financed through sales of commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. 143 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2008 Exelon $21 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $3 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $295 million of 3.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, due February 1, 2008 ComEd $274 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 ComEd $155 million of 8.50% Subordinated Debentures related to ComEd Financing II, due January 15, 2027 ComEd $120 million of 8.00% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83, due May 15, 2008 ComEd $100 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2002, due April 15, 2013 (a) ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 (a) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 (a) ComEd $42 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 B, due November 1, 2019 (a) ComEd $40 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, due May 15, 2017 (a) ComEd $20 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 D, due January 15, 2014 (a) ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $4 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 PECO $450 million of 3.5% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due May 1, 2008 PECO $207 million of 6.13% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2008 PECO $369 million of 7.625% PETT Transition Bonds, due March 1, 2009 PECO $33 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 (a) First Mortgage bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture that secured variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were refinanced. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 144 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2007 Exelon $88 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 ComEd $145 million of 7.625% note payable, due January 15, 2007 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $17 million of variable rate special agreement accounts receivable, due November 2010 ComEd $138 million of 5.63% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due June 25, 2007 (a)(b) ComEd $236 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 PECO $641 million of 6.13% PETT, due September 1, 2008 PECO $30 million of 7.625% PETT, due March 1, 2009 (a) Amount includes $17 million previously reflected in prepaid interest. This amount did not impact ComEds Consolidated Statement of Operations or ComEds Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. (b) ComEd applied $8 million of previously prepaid balances against the long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Registrants debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ 1,335 $ 1,180 Generation 1,545 2,357 PECO 484 566 Exelon paid dividends of $330 million, $329 million, $330 million, and $346 million on March 10, 2008, June 10, 2008, September 10, 2008, and December 10, 2008, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2008, May 15, 2008, August 15, 2008, and November 14, 2008, respectively. On January 27, 2009, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2009 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 13, 2009. Exelon paid dividends of $296 million, $296 million, $297 million, and $291 million on March 10, 2007, June 11, 2007, September 10, 2007 and December 10, 2007, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2007, May 15, 2007, August 15, 2007 and November 15, 2007, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, ComEd did not pay any dividend to manage cash flows and its capital structure. On January 26, 2009, the ComEd board declared a dividend of $0.472 per share on its common stock. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend in future periods. Share Repurchases. During 2008, Exelon purchased $500 million of common stock under Exelons accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock. During 2007, Exelon purchased $37 million of common stock under Exelons 2004 share repurchase program and $1.25 billion of common stock 145 under Exelons 2007 accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of forward contracts indexed to Exelons own common stock. On September 2, 2008, Exelons Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of Exelons outstanding common stock. Exelon management has determined to defer indefinitely any share repurchases. This decision was made in light of a variety of factors, including: developments affecting the world economy and commodity markets, including those for electricity and gas; the continued uncertainty in capital and credit markets and the potential impact of those events on Exelons future cash needs; projected cash needs to support investment in the business, including maintenance capital and nuclear uprates; and value added growth opportunities, including possible acquisitions such as the proposed acquisition of NRG Energy, Inc. See Note 16 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Intercompany Money Pool. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon Corporate intercompany money pool did not change during 2008 and 2007. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon Corporate intercompany money pool did not change during 2008. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon Corporate intercompany money pool decreased $45 million in 2007. Short Term Borrowings. During 2008, Exelon and PECO repaid $95 million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2008, ComEd repaid $310 million of outstanding borrowings under ComEds credit agreement. During 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO (repaid) issued $(59) million, $(60) million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2007, ComEd issued $370 million of short term borrowings under ComEds credit agreement. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 2007 Exelon $ 1,038 $ 1,020 ComEd 429 349 PECO 609 671 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 2007 Generation $ 86 $ 54 ComEd 14 28 PECO (a) 320 338 (a) $284 million and $306 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the parent receivable. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $130 million and $215 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Exelons other financing activities during 2008 and 2007 include $60 million and $97 million, respectively, of excess tax benefits, which represent the tax deduction in excess of the tax benefit related to compensation cost recognized for stock options exercised. 146 Credit Matters Recent Market Conditions The Registrants believe they have sufficient liquidity despite the current disruption of the capital and credit markets. The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flow from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and a large, diversified credit facility ($7.3 billion in aggregate total commitments and $6.9 billion available as of December 31, 2008, of which no financial institution, assuming announced consolidations, has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation and PECO and 12% for ComEd). Select Registrants also have additional letter of credit facilities used solely to enhance tax exempt variable rate debt. Certain of these letters of credit will expire in 2009 ($311 million and $194 million at Generation and ComEd, respectively), which the Registrants plan to extend or substitute. While Exelon, Generation and PECO accessed the commercial paper market intermittently in 2008, they were able to fund their short term liquidity needs with commercial paper, when necessary. Although the overall cost of issuing commercial paper was lower in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to recent Federal Reserve Bank actions and guarantee programs, credit spreads during 2008 generally widened based on the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rate and the actual interest rates on commercial paper issued by Exelon, Generation and PECO. ComEd has been utilizing its credit facility to fund its short term liquidity needs. The Registrants routinely review liquidity sufficiency, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. As the national and world wide financial crisis has worsened in recent months, the Registrants have continued to closely monitor events and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of a longer term disruption in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. If Generation and ComEd lost their investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, they would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $830 million and $282 million, respectively, which is well within their current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion and $751 million, respectively. On October 21, 2008, Standard and Poors Corporation downgraded PECOs corporate credit rating to BBB from BBB+. Subsequently, PECO provided PJM $90 million in collateral in the form of a letter of credit. If PECO were to have lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, it would have been required to provide collateral of an additional $20 million in accordance with PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $135 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of $481 million. On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (Lehman) filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of New York. Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO have or had various business relationships with subsidiaries of Lehman. The Registrants no longer have any credit facility commitments with Lehman as of September 30, 2008. Generation is a counterparty with Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc., a subsidiary of Lehman, in wholesale energy marketing transactions. The obligations of Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc. are guaranteed by Lehman, and as a result of the Lehman bankruptcy, Generation exercised its right to terminate its forward contract with Lehman Brothers Commodity Services, Inc. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon and Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc., based on Generations wholesale energy marketing business and market prices, was $22 million pre tax, which was fully reserved through a charge to the statement of operations during the year ended December 31, 2008. 147 Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper. Generation and PECO meet their short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from the intercompany money pool, and ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through borrowings under its credit facility. While short term borrowing costs have not been significant to date, further disruptions in the credit markets may result in increased costs for commercial paper borrowings. Continued disruptions in the credit markets could limit the ability of the Registrants to issue commercial paper, which may increase their reliance on their respective revolving credit facilities for short term liquidity purposes. The Registrants may use their respective credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including meeting short term funding requirements and the issuance of letters of credit. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants credit facilities. At December 31, 2008, the Registrants had the following aggregate bank commitments and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower Aggregate BankCommitment (a) OutstandingCommercialPaper OutstandingLetters ofCredit Available Capacity underRevolving CreditAgreements (b) Exelon Corporate $ 957 $ 56 $ 5 $ 952 Generation 4,834 127 4,707 ComEd 952 141 751 PECO 574 95 93 481 (a) Represents the total bank commitments to the borrower under credit agreements to which the borrower is a party. (b) Available capacity represents the unused bank commitments under the borrowers credit agreements net of outstanding letters of credit and credit facility draws. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit agreements. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the LIBOR plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 162.5 basis points for the unsecured facility. The average interest rates on short term debt (facility borrowings and commercial paper) for 2008 for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO were approximately 3.22%, 3.13%, 3.91% and 3.22%, respectively. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The interest coverage ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and interest on nonrecourse debt. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the year ended December 31, 2008: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2008, the interest coverage ratios at the Registrants were as follows: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Interest coverage ratio 12.20 28.44 3.83 6.15 148 An event of default under any of the Registrants credit facilities will not constitute an event of default under any of the other Registrants credit facilities, except that a bankruptcy or other event of default in the payment of principal, premium or indebtedness in principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate by Generation under its credit facility will constitute an event of default under the Exelon credit facility. Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2008: Securities MoodysInvestorsService Standard &PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Corporate Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Baa3 BBB BBB Senior secured debt Baa2 BBB+ BBB Commercial paper P3 A3 B PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F2 Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On March 19, 2008, S&P upgraded ComEds long term unsecured security ratings from B+ to BBB as a result of a change in methodology by S&P. On September 11, 2008, S&P upgraded ComEds corporate rating from BB to BBB and upgraded its long term, secured security ratings from BBB to BBB+ to reflect the improving regulatory environment in Illinois. S&P also increased ComEds commercial paper rating to A 3 from B. On October 3, 2008, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) upgraded the long term senior unsecured rating of ComEd to Baa3 from Ba1 and the commercial paper rating to Prime 3 from Not Prime. ComEds senior secured rating of Baa2 remains unchanged, and ComEds rating outlook is stable. A Moodys press release indicated that the upgrade largely reflects our assessment of the distribution rate case decision and also factors in the improved financial flexibility that exists at ComEd as the first mortgage collateral, which had previously secured the companys $1 billion revolving credit facility was released and replaced by a similar sized unsecured revolving credit facility. On October 21, 2008, S&P lowered its corporate credit rating on Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO to BBB from BBB+. S&P lowered the senior unsecured ratings of Exelon Corporate to BBB from BBB and of Generation to BBB from BBB+. The senior secured rating of PECO was lowered to A from A. In addition, the ratings of Exelon Corporate and all of its subsidiaries, including ComEd, were placed on CreditWatch with a negative outlook. S&P indicated concerns about Exelons potential credit position related to the proposed offer to acquire NRG. The short term commercial paper ratings of Exelon Corporate and all of its subsidiaries were affirmed by S&P. This downgrade triggered a reduction in PECOs unsecured credit limit in accordance with PJMs credit policy. PECO issued a letter of credit to PJM for $90 million to restore the amount of its unsecured credit. Generation was not required to provide collateral as a result of this downgrade. No collateral requirements of Exelon and ComEd were impacted by this downgrade. 149 On October 21, 2008, Fitch Ratings, Ltd. placed Exelon and Generation on Rating Watch Negative following the announcement of the proposed offer for NRG. On November 12, 2008, Moodys Investors Service placed the ratings of Exelon, Generation and PECO under review for possible downgrade. In addition, S&P placed the short term ratings of Exelon, Generation and PECO on CreditWatch with negative implications. These actions were taken after Exelon commenced the exchange offer for NRGs shares. The terms of the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd provide that: (1) if ComEd is upgraded to investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or S&P and then is later downgraded below investment grade, or (2) if Generation is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or S&P, collateral postings would be required by the applicable party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. As previously noted above, ComEd was upgraded to investment grade by S&P, and, therefore, the aforementioned condition has been satisfied such that if ComEd is later downgraded, it could be subject to margining depending on market prices at that time. However, under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation under the swap contract. Exelon or any of the Registrants might experience a downgrade in its credit ratings by one or more notches if the transaction with NRG is completed. Exelon remains committed to investment grade ratings and is committed that the NRG transaction will not cause Exelon or its subsidiaries to go below investment grade for senior unsecured debt. Potential measures to protect investment grade ratings include issuing additional equity, sale of assets, or reducing dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. None of the Registrants borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under the Registrants credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Variable Rate Debt As of December 31, 2008, Generation had $566 million outstanding in tax exempt variable rate debt, of which $520 million is credit enhanced by letters of credit and $46 million is unenhanced. The $46 million of unenhanced bonds remarket during the first quarter, where there may or may not be buyers willing to purchase the securities. If the securities fail to remarket, Generation has the option to hold the bonds for a period of time and wait until there are willing buyers. Generation also has the option to issue a letter of credit to credit enhance the bonds for the variable rate mode, or Generation has the option to change to another mode, including put bonds or fixed rate to maturity. For the $520 million in tax exempt variable rate debt that is backed by letters of credit, $307 million in principal of letters of credit expire during the third quarter of 2009. Generation anticipates renewing the letters of credit with existing banks or entering into letters of credit with new banks. If letters of credit are not available or are not economical, Generation will be prepared to hold the bonds for a period of time or change the bonds to another interest rate mode, including put bonds or fixed rate to maturity. Generation believes that the final results of the unenhanced debt, the letters of credit or possible mode changes will not be material. The remaining $213 million in principal of tax exempt variable rate debt at Generation has letters of credit that expire during the second quarter of 2010. 150 As of December 31, 2008, ComEd had $191 million outstanding in tax exempt variable rate debt that is credit enhanced by letters of credit and expire during the second quarter of 2009. ComEd anticipates renewing the letters of credit with existing banks, or entering into letters of credit with new banks. If letters of credit are not available or are not economical, ComEd will be prepared to hold the bonds for a period of time or change the bonds to another interest rate mode, including put bonds or fixed rate to maturity. ComEd believes the final results of the letters of credit or possible mode changes will not be material. As of January 1, 2008, PECO had $154 million of tax exempt variable auction rate securities outstanding. On March 5, 2008, PECO issued $150 million of 4% fixed rate tax exempt First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due December 1, 2012, to refinance three series of outstanding variable auction rate, tax exempt bonds. On May 1, 2008, PECO used available cash and redeemed its remaining $4.2 million of tax exempt variable auction rate bonds. Investments in Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to offset inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the values of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocations in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. With regards to equity securities, Generations investment policy establishes limits on the concentration of equity holdings in any one company and also in any one industry. With regards to its fixed income securities, Generations investment policy limits the concentrations of the types of bonds that may be purchased for the trust funds and also requires a minimum percentage of the portfolio to have investment grade ratings (minimum credit quality ratings of Baa3 by Moodys Investor Service, BBB by S&P and BBB by Fitch Ratings) while requiring that the overall portfolio maintain a minimum credit quality rating of A2. See Executive Overview for further information regarding the trust funds and the NRCs minimum funding requirements and related liquidity ramifications. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure At December 31, 2008, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 47 % 28 % 40 % 35 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 6 2 23 Common equity 46 57 39 Members equity 72 Preferred securities 1 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 1 2 (a) As of December 31, 2008, PECOs capital structure, excluding the impacts of the deduction from shareholders equity of the $500 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table above) would consist of 44% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 2% notes payable and 53% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. (b) Includes approximately $1.5 billion, $200 million and $1.3 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing transition bonds to securitize intangible transition property consisting of CTCs of PECO or mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding FIN 46 R. 151 Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2008 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2008: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2008Contributed (Borrowed) Generation $ 288 $ 328 $ PECO 328 405 BSC 6 92 Exelon 183 Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2008, the Registrants had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd had $389 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $399 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2008, PECO had $975 million in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC expiring in May 2009. PECO plans to seek additional authority from the PAPUC during the first or second quarter of 2009. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from the FERC that expire on December 31, 2009 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC with its market based rate authority. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital 152 account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2008, Exelon had retained earnings of $6.8 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,323 million, ComEds retained earnings of $170 million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $1,639 million partially offset by $1,809 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends, and PECOs retained earnings of $389 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owns interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that own synthetic fuel producing facilities. Prior to December 31, 2007, Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provided tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. The ability to earn these synthetic fuel tax credits expired on December 31, 2007 and, as such, the synthetic fuel producing facilities that Exelon had interests in ceased operations on or before December 31, 2007. In March 2008, the IRS published the 2007 oil Reference Price which resulted in a 67% phase out of tax credits for calendar year 2007 that reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $258 million to $85 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Exelon generated approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments. As a result of the phase out of tax credits in 2007 and the timing of the realization of tax benefits earned in prior years, Exelon collected approximately $200 million of cash in 2008, which includes $44 million collected in the first quarter of 2008 related to the settlement of derivatives that were entered into in the normal course of trading operations in 2005 to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 11,407 $ 27 $ 2,410 $ 1,377 $ 7,593 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 1,514 319 805 390 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 6,770 627 1,160 881 4,102 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 675 94 72 50 459 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 446 5 441 Capital leases 40 2 5 4 29 Operating leases 762 68 124 117 453 Purchase power obligations (c) 3,568 526 708 543 1,791 Fuel purchase agreements 6,504 1,325 1,774 1,185 2,220 Other purchase obligations (d) 1,076 333 420 268 55 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (e) 24 6 12 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,015 1,015 Pension minimum funding requirement (f) 4,011 162 1,647 1,538 664 Other postretirement benefits minimum funding requirement (g) 256 56 98 102 Total contractual obligations $ 38,068 $ 3,550 $ 9,235 $ 6,071 $ 18,771 $ 441 153 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2008. (b) As of December 31, 2008, Exelons FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $430 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the tables represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2008. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreement with the City of Chicago, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (f) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as well as discretionary contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. As further described in Cash Flows From Operating Activities above, WRERA clarified that asset smoothing is permitted in accordance with the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Exelon has not yet determined whether it will elect this option. If Exelon elected this option, the total contributions in the table above would be $162 million, $832 million, $2,563 million and $578 million in 2009, 2010 2011, 2012 2013 and 2014, respectively. The minimum required contributions for years after 2014 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may choose to make additional discretionary contributions. (g) These amounts represent estimated minimum other postretirement benefit contributions required under a PAPUC rate order. These minimum contributions represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2014 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary. Exelons commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 430 $ 430 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 18 7 11 Surety bonds (c) 88 7 81 Performance guarantees (d) 296 200 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (e) 207 162 40 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (f) 1,997 1,997 Lease guarantees (g) 131 3 9 119 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (h) 14 8 4 2 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (i) 14 4 8 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (j) 152 128 24 Construction commitments (k) 341 123 135 83 Total commitments $ 3,688 $ 1,069 $ 225 $ 191 $ 2,203 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon had $225 million of outstanding letters of credit (non debt) issued under its $6.6 billion credit agreements. Guarantees of $10 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amounts of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $566 million at Generation and $191 million at ComEd are reflected in long term debt in Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. 154 (d) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (e) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (f) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (g) Lease guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure payments on building leases. (h) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the 2007 City of Chicago Settlement. (i) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, $1 million is included as a liability on Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 related to this guarantee. (j) See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (k) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds and PECOs construction commitments. Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment Due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 2,476 $ 10 $ 700 $ $ 1,766 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 884 131 235 165 353 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 24 2 22 Capital leases 40 2 5 4 29 Operating leases 449 27 50 49 323 Purchase power obligations (c) 3,568 526 708 543 1,791 Fuel purchase agreements 5,999 1,168 1,615 1,107 2,109 Other purchase commitments (d) 690 167 293 191 39 Pension minimum funding requirement (e) 123 20 42 42 19 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 1,015 1,015 Total contractual obligations $ 15,268 $ 2,053 $ 3,648 $ 2,101 $ 7,444 $ 22 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2008. (b) As of December 31, 2008, Generations FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $14 million and $10 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2008. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) These amounts represent Generations estimated minimum pension contributions to the AmerGen postretirement benefit plans as required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information). As a result of the dissolution of AmerGen effective January 8, 2009, Exelon became the sponsor of the AmerGen benefit plans and assumed these minimum funding obligations. 155 Generations commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a)(b) $ 136 $ 136 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (c) 15 4 11 Surety bonds (d) 5 2 3 Performance guarantees (e) 296 200 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (f) 207 162 40 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (g) 1,997 1,997 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (h) 142 118 24 Other 1 1 Total commitments $ 2,799 $ 623 $ 75 $ 95 $ 2,006 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. Guarantees of $8 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) The amount includes letters of credit that are posted to ComEd related to the Illinois procurement auction. (c) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $566 million is reflected in long term debt in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (f) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (h) See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations rate relief commitments. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, had a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas were indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England had guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $13 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. In April 2008, Distrigas, Exelon New England and Mystic entered into agreements that terminated the guarantee, which resulted in Generations elimination of the guarantee liability and the recognition of $13 million of income. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. During 2008, the value of the trust funds declined significantly due to unrealized losses as a result of adverse financial market conditions. Despite this decline in value, Generation believes that the decommissioning trust funds for the nuclear generating stations formerly owned by ComEd, PECO and AmerGen, the expected earnings thereon and, in the case of the former PECO stations, the amounts collected from PECOs customers will ultimately be sufficient to fully fund Generations decommissioning obligations for its nuclear generating stations in accordance with NRC regulations. However, NRC minimum funding requirements may require Generation to take steps to address the 156 funded status of the trust funds. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels. Depending on the value of the trust funds, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or make additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Exelons and Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. Generations next report to the NRC is due on March 31, 2009, based on trust fund values and estimated decommissioning obligations as of December 31, 2008. Based on these values, six units at three nuclear generating stations were in an underfunded position by approximately $185 million in total at December 31, 2008, relative to the NRC minimum funding requirements. Exelon and Generation currently are evaluating the remedy that will be used to address the underfunded status. For a further discussion of matters regarding the adequacy of Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds to meet its decommissioning obligations, the obligations imposed on Generation related to the potential excess or shortfall of trust funds, the impact on Generations accounting for its former ComEd units as a result of a shortfall of trust funds and other matters related to Generations trust funds and decommissioning obligations, see Note12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 4,756 $ 17 $ 560 $ 702 $ 3,477 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 206 206 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 3,461 272 530 426 2,233 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 321 13 26 26 256 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 477 3 474 Operating leases 119 20 35 31 33 Other purchase commitments (c) 95 71 21 3 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 24 6 12 6 Total contractual obligations $ 9,459 $ 402 $ 1,184 $ 1,194 $ 6,205 $ 474 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2008, ComEds FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $387 million and $90 million, respectively. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. Other purchase commitments do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds supplier forward contracts. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. 157 ComEds commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 166 $ 166 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 3 3 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (c) 14 8 4 2 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (d) 14 4 8 2 Surety bonds (e) 2 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (f) 10 10 Construction commitments (g) 188 71 73 44 Other 2 2 Total commitments $ 399 $ 266 $ 85 $ 48 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $191 million is reflected in long term debt in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the 2007 City of Chicago Settlement. (d) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), $1 million is included as a liability on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 related to this guarantee. (e) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (f) See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds rate relief commitments. (g) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds construction commitments. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 1,975 $ $ 250 $ 675 $ 1,050 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 1,308 319 805 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,332 107 212 162 851 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 355 81 46 24 204 FIN 48 liability (b) 1 1 Operating leases 169 22 42 41 64 Fuel purchase agreements (c) 505 157 159 78 111 Other purchase commitments (d) 124 34 39 35 16 Total contractual obligations $ 5,769 $ 720 $ 1,553 $ 1,015 $ 2,480 $ 1 158 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2008, PECOs FIN 48 liability was $1 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain FIN 48 liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECOs commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 122 $ 122 $ $ $ Surety bonds (b) 3 3 Construction commitments (c) 153 52 62 39 Total commitments $ 278 $ 177 $ 62 $ 39 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) PECO maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (c) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on PECOs construction commitments. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FIN 48 liabilities, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel obligations, see Notes 12 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Variable Interest Entities Generation PPAs. Generation enters into power purchase agreements (PPAs) with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers, including ComEd and PECO, and these PPAs are not consolidated in Exelons and Generations financial statements pursuant to the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46 R). See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. The financing trusts of ComEd, namely ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, and the financing trusts of PECO, namely PECO Trust III, PECO Trust IV and PETT, are not consolidated 159 in Exelons, ComEds and PECOs financial statements pursuant to the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities and FIN 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46 R). Amounts of approximately $200 million and $1.3 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to financing trusts and PETT within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008. During 2008, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were liquidated upon final payment of the outstanding debt of each entity. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it sold an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement no. 125, (SFAS No. 140). PECO retains the servicing responsibility for the sold receivables and has recorded a servicing liability in accordance with FASB Statement No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140. The agreement terminates on September 18, 2009 unless extended in accordance with its terms. As of December 31, 2008, PECO is in compliance with the requirements of the agreement. See Note 16 Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities for additional information regarding the servicing liability. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. In November 2008, the SEC issued a roadmap for the potential use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the U.S. IFRS is a set of accounting standards developed by the International Accounting Standards Board, whose mission is to develop a single set of global financial reporting standards for general purpose financial statements. The roadmap indicates that the SEC will reconvene in 2011 to evaluate progress towards certain identified milestones and decide whether a mandatory IFRS conversion should be required for all U.S. issuers beginning with large accelerated filers in 2014. Exelon is currently evaluating the potential impact IFRS may have on its financial statements. 160 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Corporation The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons Risk Management Committee (RMC) approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation has the most exposure to commodity price risk. PECO has transferred all of its electricity commodity price risk to Generation through a purchase power agreement (PPA) that expires at the end of 2010. PECO relies on the PAPUCs purchased gas cost clause to mitigate natural gas price risk associated with market variability, which allows PECO to adjust rates quarterly to reflect realized natural gas prices. ComEd has transferred most of its near term commodity price risk to generating companies through the former Illinois auction process and the significant portion of its longer term commodity price risk to Generation through the five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. The Illinois Settlement Legislation provides for the pass through of procurement costs by ComEd to its customers. Exelon In 2005, Exelon entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. Including the related mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities did not have any net impact on Exelons net income for the year ended December 31, 2008, and increased (reduced) Exelons net income by $87 million and $(24) million during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net income or net losses from interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities are reflected in Exelons Consolidated Statements of Operations within income taxes, operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates and other, net. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding synthetic fuel activity. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Economic hedges may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Economic hedges that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in results of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in results of operations when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the 161 fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current results of operations. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation has hedges in place for 2009 and 2010 and, with the ComEd financial swap contract, also for 2011 into 2013. The economic hedge activity resulted in a net mark to market energy contract asset position of $1,151 million at December 31, 2008, comprised of a net energy contract asset for cash flow hedges of $1,197 million and a net energy contract liability for other derivatives of $46 million. The net mark to market asset position for the portfolio at December 31, 2008 is a result of forward market prices decreasing relative to the contracted price of the derivative instruments, the majority of which are hedges of future power sales. Activity associated with the cash flow hedges are recognized through accumulated OCI until the period in which the associated physical sale of power occurs. At that time, the cash flow hedges mark to market position is reversed and reclassified as results of operations, which when combined with the impacts of the actual physical power sale, results in the ultimate recognition of net revenues at the contracted price. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation has estimated greater than 95% and 90% for economic and cash flow hedge ratios for 2009 and 2010, respectively, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This financial hedge ratio is Generations estimate of the gross margin that is hedged given the current assessment of market volatility. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations unhedged positions in its non trading portfolio associated with a 10% reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity would be a decrease in pre tax net income of less than $75 million and $150 million, respectively, for 2009 and 2010. This sensitivity assumes that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of 162 Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. The proprietary trading activities included volumes of 8,891 GWhs, 20,323 GWhs and 31,692 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2008 resulted in pre tax gains of $106 million due to net mark to market gains of $63 million and realized gains of $43 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $300,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 of $7,182 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and VaR limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons Risk Management Committee monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. ComEd ComEds energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Economic hedges may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in results of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case changes in fair value are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in results of operations when the underlying transaction occurs or if regulatory accounting criteria are met. With the exception of ComEds energy derivative swap with Generation, changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current results of operations. Since the swap contract was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates, the change in the fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction and the RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. All of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. In addition, Generation and PECO have entered into a long term full requirements power purchase agreement (PPA) under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The PPA is not considered a derivative under SFAS No. 133. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations and ComEds trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). 163 The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations and ComEds mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Generation ComEd IntercompanyEliminations (e) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2007 (a) $ 252 $ (11 ) $ $ 241 Total change in fair value during 2007 of contracts recorded in result of operations (29 ) (29 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (106 ) 4 (102 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (15 ) 3 (12 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c) (1,310 ) 4 456 (850 ) Changes in fair value energy derivative with Generation (d) 456 (456 ) Changes in collateral 519 519 Other balance sheet reclassifications (1 ) (1 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2007 (a) $ (690 ) 456 $ (234 ) Total change in fair value during 2008 of contracts recorded in result of operations 646 646 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (131 ) (131 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (b) 544 (24 ) 520 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c) 1,784 (888 ) 896 Changes in fair value energy derivative with Generation (d) (912 ) 912 Changes in collateral (1,024 ) (1,024 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications (11 ) (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2008 (a) $ 1,118 $ (456 ) $ $ 662 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. (b) For Generation, includes $24 million gain of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 related to the settlement of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd. (c) For Generation, includes $888 million gain and $456 million loss of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (d) For ComEd, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd recorded a $456 million regulatory asset related to its mark to market derivative liability. As of December 31, 2007 ComEd recorded a $456 million regulatory liability related to its mark to market derivative asset. In addition, ComEd included a net reduction of purchased power expense of $2 million related to changes in fair value of the five year swap contract with Generation for the year ended December 31, 2008. No effect to purchased power expense was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2007. (e) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. 164 The following tables detail the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2008 and 2007: December 31, 2008 Generation (a)(b) ComEd (a) IntercompanyElimination (c) Exelon Current assets $ 521 $ $ (111 ) $ 410 Noncurrent assets 835 (345 ) 490 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,356 (456 ) 900 Current liabilities (214 ) (111 ) 111 (214 ) Noncurrent liabilities (24 ) (345 ) 345 (24 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (238 ) (456 ) 456 (238 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 1,118 $ (456 ) $ $ 662 (a) Includes current and noncurrent asset for Generation and current and noncurrent liability for ComEd of $111 million and $345 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. (b) As of December 31, 2008, collateral of $177 million, $252 million, $274 million and $50 million are netted against current and noncurrent assets and current and noncurrent liabilities, respectively. The total cash collateral received was $753 million at December 31, 2008. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. December 31, 2007 Generation (a)(b) ComEd (a) IntercompanyElimination (c) Exelon Current assets $ 247 $ 13 $ (13 ) $ 247 Noncurrent assets 51 443 (443 ) 51 Total mark to market energy contract assets 298 456 (456 ) 298 Current liabilities (247 ) 13 (234 ) Noncurrent liabilities (741 ) 443 (298 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (988 ) 456 (532 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (690 ) $ 456 $ $ (234 ) (a) Includes current and noncurrent liability for Generation and current and noncurrent asset for ComEd of $13 million and $443 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. (b) As of December 31, 2007, collateral of $104 million, $23 million, $63 million and $82 million are netted against current and noncurrent assets and current and noncurrent liabilities, respectively. The total cash collateral posted net of cash collateral received was $272 million at December 31, 2007. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets, which are primarily option contracts, represents contracts for which external valuations are not available. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2008 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation and ComEd hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price 165 quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from the swap between Generation and ComEd, energy marketing, trading activities and such variations could be material. The following tables, which present maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market asset or (liability). Second, the tables provide the maturity, by year, of the Registrants net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Exelon Maturities Within Total FairValue 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 419 $ 208 $ 98 $ 3 $ 3 $ $ 731 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 1 4 5 10 Total $ 420 $ 208 $ 102 $ 8 $ 3 $ $ 741 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ 12 $ $ $ $ $ $ 12 Prices provided by external sources (324 ) 51 86 (187 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 87 (6 ) 6 4 3 2 96 Total $ (225 ) $ 45 92 4 $ 3 $ 2 $ (79 ) (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Excludes $456 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 419 $ 208 $ 98 $ 3 $ 3 $ $ 731 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 112 165 118 59 12 466 Total $ 531 $ 373 $ 216 $ 62 $ 15 $ $ 1,197 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ 12 $ $ $ $ $ $ 12 Prices provided by external sources (324 ) 51 86 (187 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 87 (6 ) 6 4 3 2 96 Total $ (225 ) $ 45 92 4 $ 3 $ 2 $ (79 ) 166 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Includes $456 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. ComEd Maturities Within Total Fair Value 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (111 ) $ (165 ) $ (114 ) $ (54 ) $ (12 ) $ (456 ) (a) Represents ComEds net liabilities associated with the five year financial swap with Generation. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity Net of Income Tax Generation (a) ComEd Exelon Energy RelatedHedges Energy RelatedHedges Energy RelatedHedges Accumulated OCI derivative gain (loss) at January 1, 2007 $ 247 $ (4 ) $ 243 Effective portion of changes in fair value (786 )(b) 1 (507 ) Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income (9 ) 3 (6 ) Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2007 $ (548 )(a) $ $ (270 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value 1,075 (b) 541 Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income 328 (c) 314 Accumulated OCI derivative gain at December 31, 2008 $ 855 (a) $ $ 585 (a) Includes $275 million gain and $275 million loss, net of taxes, related to the fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for 2008 and 2007, respectively. (b) Includes $535 million gain and $275 million loss, net of taxes, of the effective portion of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (c) Includes $15 million gain, net of taxes, of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income related to the settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the year ended December 31, 2008. 167 Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation Generations PPA with ComEd expired at the end of 2006. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren electricity supply auctions. Beginning in 2007 and as a result of the auctions, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Generation participated in the 2008 ComEd RFP procurement process and will continue to have credit risk in connection with contracts for sale of electricity resulting from the alternative competitive procurement process. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment; therefore, Generations credit risk profile has changed based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. For additional information on the Illinois auction and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation enters into enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with its counterparties, which reduces Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. Typically, each enabling agreement is for a specific commodity and so, with respect to each individual counterparty, netting is limited to transactions involving that specific commodity product, except where master netting agreements exist with a counterparty that allows for cross product netting. In addition to payment netting language in the enabling agreement, the credit department establishes margining thresholds and collateral requirements for each counterparty, which are defined in each contract. Counterparty credit limits are based on an internal credit review that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. To the extent that a counterpartys margining thresholds are exceeded, the counterparty is required to post collateral with Generation as specified in each enabling agreement. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. See the Collateral section below for additional information. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2008. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs), Independent System Operators (ISOs) and New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) and Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include receivables of $159 million and $126 million, respectively, related to the supplier forward agreement with ComEd and the PPA with PECO. Rating as of December 31, 2008 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,553 $ 440 $ 1,113 1 $ 205 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 6 6 Internally rated non investment grade 29 8 21 Total $ 1,593 $ 450 $ 1,143 1 $ 205 168 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2008 Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,116 $ 437 $ $ 1,553 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 6 6 Internally rated non investment grade 21 8 29 Total $ 1,148 $ 445 $ $ 1,593 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As of December 31, 2008 Financial institutions $ 383 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 709 Coal 14 Other 37 Total $ 1,143 ComEd Due to the expiration of ComEds PPA with Generation on December 31, 2006, ComEd began procuring power from multiple suppliers, including Generation. The power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on the price of energy in the spot market compared to the contracted price with each supplier. If the price of energy in the spot market exceeds the contract price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd did not have any credit exposure to suppliers, as the price of energy in the spot market did not exceed the contract prices with suppliers. PECO PECO has a PPA with Generation under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources at fixed prices that are currently below current market prices. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues earned from customers as specified by PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. As noted under Item 1A. Risk Factors, PECO could be negatively impacted if Generation could not perform under the PPA. For PECOs natural gas supply contracts, no disclosure is necessary for the year ended December 31, 2008 because PECO has no price exposure as the fixed contract obligation costs are greater than projected market prices. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral 169 requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Exelon depends on access to bank credit lines which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. Since the banking industry issues started to surface in mid 2007, credit markets have tightened. Exelon will be required to renew most of its credit facilities in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cost and availability to renew may be substantially different than when Exelon originally negotiated the existing liquidity facilities. Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, neither ComEd nor Ameren is required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation may be required to post collateral once certain credit limits are exceeded. Under the terms of the 5 year financial swap contract with ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, the swap contract also provides that: (1) if ComEd is upgraded to investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or Standard & Poors and then is later downgraded below investment grade, or (2) if Generation is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or Standard & Poors, collateral postings would be required by the applicable party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. As of December 31, 2008, there was no cash collateral or letters of credit posted between any suppliers, including Generation, and ComEd associated with the supplier forward contracts. As of March 19, 2008, ComEd was upgraded to investment grade by Standard & Poors, and therefore, the above condition has been satisfied such that if ComEd is later downgraded, it could be subject to margining depending on market prices at that time. Under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation under the swap contract. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Generation participated in the 2008 ComEd RFP procurement process. Under the terms of the RFP, collateral postings are required of both ComEd and the counterparty supplier, including Generation, should exposures between market prices and contracted prices exceed established thresholds outlined in the agreement. As stipulated in the Illinois legislation as well as the ICC approved procurement tariff, ComEd is permitted to recover its costs of procuring power and energy plus any prudent costs that a utility incurs in arranging and providing for the supply of electric power and energy. Thus all costs associated with collateral postings are recoverable from retail customers through ComEds procurement tariff. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. As of December 31, 2008, Generation was holding $758 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties, of which $753 million was offset against mark to market assets and liabilities, in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. PECO does not obtain collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply agreements. 170 RTOs and ISOs. Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions. Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse acts as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. Generation and PECO Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 60% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2009 through 2013 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. PECO procures natural gas from suppliers under both short term and long term contracts. PECOs natural gas procurement plan is reviewed and approved annually on a prospective basis by the PAPUC. PECOs counterparty credit risk under its natural gas supply agreements is mitigated by its ability to recover its natural gas costs through the PAPUC purchased gas cost clause that allows PECO to adjust rates to reflect realized natural gas prices. ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will continue to monitor the impact of the power prices on its customer payment practices as it relates to its provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd and PECO will continue to monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. The Illinois Settlement Legislation (discussed in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to 171 nonpayment between December 1 of any year and March 1 of the following year. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. ComEd and PECO will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts could be affected by changes in future prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. ComEd and PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of their revenues as of December 31, 2008. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2008, included a $577 million net investment in direct financing leases. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $915 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2008, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. As of December 31, 2008, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in $1.4 million, $1.2 million and less than $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds, respectively, pre tax earnings. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2008, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the values of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $247 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. Exelon and Generation maintain trust assets associated with defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 172 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 173 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 174 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2008, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $952 million. In the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a new letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement for certain tax exempt pollution control revenue bonds, which are secured by First Mortgage Bonds. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2008, 2007 or 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 175 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 176 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2008, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 177 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 178 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Exelon Liquidity and Capital Resources, may adversely affect the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future adversely affect its performance or financial condition. General Business The following risk factors may adversely impact several or all of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. Due to the national and world wide financial crisis, potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets as well as increased volatility in commodity markets may adversely affect the Registrants businesses, including the availability and cost of new short term funds for liquidity requirements, their ability to meet long term commitments, Generations ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect the Registrants financial condition, results of operations and cash flows (including the ability to pay dividends or fund other discretionary uses of cash such as growth projects). The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their financial commitments and short term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants respective operations. Generation and ComEd also use letters of credit issued under their revolving credit facilities to support their operations. Further disruptions in the capital and credit markets, or further deterioration of the banks financial condition could adversely affect the Registrants ability to draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Registrants and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect the Registrants access to liquidity needed for their respective businesses. Any disruption could require the Registrants to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for their business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing Generations hedging strategy to reduce collateral posting requirements, and reducing dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. The strength and depth of competition in competitive energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are 38 important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long term contracts such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd as described further in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations and cash flows. Continued market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for electricity and increased incidence of customers inability to pay their accounts. In addition, the slowing world economy could lead to lower international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, which may lower fossil fuel prices and put downward pressure on electricity prices. These events would adversely impact the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The disruptions in capital and credit markets have also resulted in higher interest coupons on publicly issued debt securities, increased costs associated with commercial paper borrowing and under bank credit facilities, increased costs for certain variable interest rate debt securities of the Registrants and failed remarketings of tax exempt variable interest rate debt issued to finance certain of the Registrants facilities. Continuation of these disruptions would increase the Registrants interest expense and adversely affect their results of operations. The disruption in the capital markets and its actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy also adversely affect the value of the investments held within Exelons employee benefit plan trusts and Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts. Significant declines in the value of the investments held within Exelons employee benefit plan trusts will require the Registrants to increase contributions to those trusts to meet future funding requirements if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value in the foreseeable future and may adversely impact Exelons and its subsidiaries results of operations, cash flows and financial positions, including their shareholders equity. In addition, a significant decline in the market value of the nuclear decommissioning trust funds may require Exelon and Generation to increase contributions to those trusts to meet future funding requirements and may adversely impact Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exelons generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated. Fundamental changes in regulation could disrupt Exelons business plans and adversely affect its operations and financial results. Substantially all aspects of the businesses of Exelon and its subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation. Further, Exelons operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of its generation business to sell power at market based rates, as opposed to cost based or other similarly regulated rates, and the ability of its energy delivery businesses to recover their costs for purchased power and their costs of distribution of power to their customers. In its business planning and in the management of its operations, Exelon must address the effects of regulation of its businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking jurisdictions and taxing authorities. In particular, state and Federal legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets exceed the marginal cost of operating nuclear plants, claims that this difference is evidence that the competitive model is not working, and resulting calls for some form of re regulation, the elimination of marginal pricing, the imposition of a generation tax, or some other means of reducing the earnings of Generation and its competitors. As the energy markets continue to mature, a low number of wholesale market power participants entering procurement proceedings may also influence how certain regulators and legislators view the effectiveness of these competitive 39 markets. Although Exelon does not agree with these positions by some regulators and legislators, the effectiveness of Exelon in meeting these challenges may affect its operating results and cash flows and the value of its generation and energy delivery assets. Fundamental changes in the nature of the regulation of Exelons businesses would require changes in its business planning models and could adversely affect its operating results and the value of its assets. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants and under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, as was experienced in 2008, will increase the funding requirements under Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plans if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value in the foreseeable future. Additionally, Exelons pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Also, if future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets are not recoverable from PECO and ComEd customers, the results of operations and financial position of the Exelon could be negatively affected. In addition, a decline in the market value of the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments, as was experienced in 2008, may increase the funding requirements of the obligations to decommission Generations nuclear plants. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, their results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. See Generation, Nuclear Operating Risks, Decommissioning for additional information. Legislators or regulators may respond to anticipated increases in rates following the end of the retail electric generation rate cap transition period in Pennsylvania on December 31, 2010 by enacting laws or regulations aimed at restricting or controlling those rates or by establishing rate relief programs that could require significant funding from PECO and or Generation that could adversely affect PECO and or Generations results of operations. In Pennsylvania, despite the decrease during 2008 in wholesale electricity market prices, legislators and regulators have still expressed concern regarding the transition to market based retail electric generation rates. Although Act 129 provides guidelines associated with electricity procurement that support competitive, market based procurement, elected officials have suggested rate cap extensions, rate increase deferrals and phase ins, a generation tax and contributions of value (potentially billions of dollars statewide) by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs. PECO and Generation cannot predict whether any of these measures will become law or whether elected officials might take action that could have a material impact on the procurement process. If the price which PECO is allowed to bill to customers for electricity is below PECOs cost to procure and deliver electricity, PECO expects that it will suffer adverse consequences, which could be material. 40 The Illinois Settlement Legislation enacted in 2007 providing rate relief to Illinois electric customers and requiring other changes in the electric industry in lieu of harmful alternatives such as rate freezes, caps, or a tax on generation, could be reversed or modified by new legislation that could be harmful to ComEd and Generation. The Illinois Settlement Legislation enacted in 2007 reflects the Illinois Settlement reached by ComEd, Generation, and other utilities and generators in Illinois with various parties concluding discussions of measures to address higher electric bills experienced in Illinois since the end of the legislatively mandated transition and rate freeze at the end of 2006. The Illinois Settlement Legislation addressed those concerns without implementing a rate freeze, generation tax, or other alternative measures that Exelon believes would have been harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. For more information regarding potential risks associated with such legislation, see Illinois Settlement Agreement and Retail Electric Services in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. Although the Illinois Settlement Legislation allows the contributors to the rate relief to terminate their funding commitments and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief in the event that, prior to August 1, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly passes legislation that freezes or reduces electric rates of or imposes a generation tax on parties to the Illinois Settlement, there is no guarantee that such legislation will not be passed and enacted in Illinois. The experience in Illinois in 2007 suggests a risk that the Illinois General Assembly may threaten extreme measures again in the future in an attempt to force electric utilities and generators to make further concessions. Such legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on ComEd and Generations results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelons 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like kind exchange transaction. If the IRS is successful in its challenge, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that becomes currently payable. As of December 31, 2008, Exelons and ComEds potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $1 billion excluding penalties. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, it could negatively affect Exelons and ComEds results of operations by up to $199 million (after tax) related to interest expense. The timing of the final resolution of this matter is unknown. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected, and tax credits. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Increases in taxes and fees. Due to the revenue needs of the states and jurisdictions in which the Registrants operate, various tax and fee increases may be proposed or considered. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. 41 In August 2007, the Governor of Illinois signed Illinois Senate Bill (SB) 1544 into law, which became effective January 1, 2008. SB 1544 provided for new rules related to the sourcing of receipts from services for Illinois income tax purposes. These rules generally sourced receipts from services based upon where the benefit of the service was realized. In January 2008, the Governor of Illinois signed Illinois SB 783 into law, which amended certain provisions of SB 1544, including the rules pursuant to which receipts from services should be sourced for Illinois income tax purposes. Pursuant to SB 783, receipts from services generally should be sourced based upon where the services are received. On December 26, 2008, the Illinois Department of Revenue proposed regulations prescribing where utility services are received. These proposed regulations are susceptible to change until they are finalized, which is not expected to occur until March 2009 at the earliest. Exelon will assess the impact that SB 783 may have on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows once the Illinois Department of Revenue finalizes regulations prescribing where utility services are received, which as stated above, is not expected to occur until March 2009. The impact may be material. Exelons holding company structure could limit its ability to pay dividends. Exelon is a holding company with no material assets other than the investment in its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on several factors including their results of operations and cash flows. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediation of environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. 42 Generation will incur material costs of compliance if regulations under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act require retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at nuclear and fossil power plants owned by Generation. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if Federal and or state legislation is adopted to address climate change. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. Select Northeast and Mid Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and or state legislation to reduce GHG emissions is likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon and Generation may incur material costs either to additionally limit the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. The nature and extent of environmental regulation may also impact the ability of Exelon and its subsidiaries to meet the GHG emission reduction targets of Exelon 2020. For example, more stringent permitting requirements may preclude the construction of low carbon nuclear and gas fired power plants. Similarly, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see Global Climate Change in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. As a result of the Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. These standards, which previously were being applied on a voluntary basis, became mandatory on June 18, 2007. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon and its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance by the third parties, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a 43 material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Results of operations may be negatively affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. These medical benefit costs are increasing at a rate that is significantly greater than the rate of general inflation. Additionally, it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate which is higher than anticipated by the Registrants. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs, pension costs, or other increasing costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. The Registrants employees, contractors, customers and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. Significant risks include nuclear accidents, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases. A serious event may exceed the Registrants insurance coverage and may significantly impact the Registrants results of operations or financial position. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to operating challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. War, acts and threats of terrorism, natural disaster and other significant events may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. Exelon does not know the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Exelons operations. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect Exelons operations and its ability to raise capital. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Exelons revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect Exelons results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. 44 Additionally, Exelon is affected by changes in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes, storms and other natural disasters in its service territory and throughout the U.S. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive which could result in increased costs including supply chain costs. See Environmental Regulation in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K for additional information. Generation Market Transition Risks Generations business may be negatively affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. RTOs. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, and to purchase power to meet obligations not provided by its own resources. These wholesale markets allow Generation to take advantage of market price opportunities but also expose Generation to market risk. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features, which may create trading barriers among the markets. Approximately 80% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations will depend on (1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the development of competitive wholesale power markets, such as the PJM market, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market, such as, for example, withdrawal of significant participants from the regional wholesale markets. Generation could also be adversely affected by efforts of state legislatures and regulatory authorities to respond to the concerns of consumers or others about rising costs of energy that are reflected through wholesale markets. Competitive Electric Generation Suppliers. Because retail customers in both Illinois and Pennsylvania can switch from ComEd or PECO to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generations obligation to provide the supply needed to serve Generations share of the ComEd load and to supply PECO with all of the energy PECO needs to fulfill its default service obligation is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is the ability of retail customers to switch to competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from ComEd or PECO than Generation anticipates, the ComEd and or PECO load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more of such customers switch than Generation anticipates, the ComEd and /or PECO load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, cause Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal legislative or regulatory actions that could weaken competition in the wholesale markets or affect pricing rules in the RTO markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which has escalated in recent years as retail rate freezes expired and prices of electricity increased with rising fuel prices, is expected to continue in 2009. A number of advocacy groups have urged FERC to reconsider its support of competitive wholesale electricity markets and require the RTOs to revise the rules governing the RTO administered markets. In particular, the advocacy groups oppose the RTOs use of a single clearing price for electricity sold in the RTO markets utilizing locational marginal pricing. FERC conducted conferences 45 which led to a rulemaking on Wholesale Competition in Regions with Organized Electric Markets. On October 17, 2008, FERC issued a Final Rule, Order No. 719, to improve the operation of organized wholesale electric markets in the areas of (1) demand response and market pricing during periods of operating reserve shortage; (2) long term power contracting; (3) market monitoring policies; and (4) the responsiveness of RTOs and independent system operators (ISOs). A number of entities have filed requests for rehearing with FERC. The outcome of this FERC rulemaking process could significantly affect Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, on June 21, 2007, FERC issued a Final Rule on Market Based Rates for Wholesale Sales of Electric Energy, Capacity and Ancillary Services by Public Utilities. FERC provided clarification to the Final Rule on December 14, 2007. The Final Rule made a number of changes in FERCs market based rate analysis and required a market power update filing by Generation, ComEd and PECO, which was made on January 14, 2008. As discussed in more detail in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on January 15, 2009, FERC issued an order accepting Exelons filing, and therefore affirmed that Exelons affiliates with market based rates can continue to make market based sales. Accordingly, the application of the Final Rule has not had and is not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations, although the longer term impact will depend on how FERC applies the Final Rule as its enforcement of the rule matures with time and experience. Due to its dependence on its two most significant customers, ComEd and PECO, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of either of its most significant customers. Generation currently provides power under procurement contracts with ComEd for a significant portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements and a PPA with PECO to meet 100% of PECOs electricity supply requirements. In addition, Generation entered into a five year financial swap contract with ComEd, effective August 2007, to hedge a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds and PECOs continued payments under these procurement contracts and the PPA and would be adversely affected by negative events affecting these agreements, including the non performance or a change in the creditworthiness of either ComEd or PECO. A default by ComEd or PECO under these agreements would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generations physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generations cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation based taxes and contributions to rate relief packages. 46 Generation may not be able to effectively respond to competition in the energy industry. Generations financial performance depends in part on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. The new generating facilities of these market entrants may be more efficient than some of Generations existing facilities and will increase available capacity relative to demand for electricity, which could have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations or financial condition. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. Generations financial growth depends in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. As the demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and the Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Additionally, construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Nuclear Operations Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 24 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 24 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the co owned Salem plant operated by PSEG, was 12 in 2008 with 10 planned for 2009. The projected total non fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation will increase in 2009 compared to 2008 by approximately $223 million as Generation continues to invest in equipment upgrades that ensure safe reliable operations and provide for generation increases due to equipment efficiency improvements. Total operating and maintenance expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by 47 Generation are expected to decrease by approximately $6 million in 2009 compared to 2008 as a result of two less planned refueling outages in 2009 as compared to 2008, partially offset by inflationary cost increases. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have previously had a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. It is difficult to predict the cost for unknown potential future issues and any required remediation actions. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may adversely affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Environmental risk. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations establishing a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic organisms at existing generating stations requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Oyster Creek, Salem or other Exelon power plants, this could result in material costs of compliance. In addition, the amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generations decision to operate the plant after the 316(b) matter is ultimately resolved. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. Should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation 48 may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by PSEG, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plants output, Generation is dependent on the operational performance of the co owner operator. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generations, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $12.52 billion limit for a single incident. Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generations portion of the NEIL distribution for 2008 was $28 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Operations. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. The performance of capital markets also can significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions only to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers or from the previous owners of the AmerGen plants, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation were unable to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the value and adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units may be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company 49 guarantees or make additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Operating Risks Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained through long term uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Coal, natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. It is not possible to predict the ultimate cost or availability of these commodities. Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. A significant portion of Generations power portfolio is used to provide power under a long term PPA with PECO and procurement contracts with ComEd and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of its customers, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity under long term and short term contracts in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation that is not used to meet Generations long term supply commitments are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity likely reflects the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, energy or fuel will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be 50 forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, the retail businesses subject Generation to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities that serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers accounts receivable balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Risk of Credit Downgrades. Generations trading business is subject to credit quality standards. At December 31, 2008, Generation had posted $93 million in letters of credit with various exchange floor clearing members and had no cash collateral deposit payments being held by the same floor clearing members. Generation was holding $758 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and received $161 million of letters of credit posted from counterparties. If Generation were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating) or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. If Generation had been downgraded to the investment grade rating of BBB and Baa3 as of December 31, 2008, it would have been required to provide an insignificant amount of incremental collateral. If Generation had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $830 million. The amount of collateral required to be provided by Generation at any point in time is dependent on a variety of factors, including (1) notional amount of trading positions, (2) nature of counterparty and related agreements, and (3) changes in power or other commodity prices. In addition, if Generation were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Generation could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies conclude that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the power generation industry or Generation has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of Generation. The $830 million includes $218 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Immature Markets. The wholesale spot markets are evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generations business. Hedging. Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Weather. Generations operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. 51 Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. Power Teams power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities related to its economic hedging and proprietary trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generations business is capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. For example, Generation is considering building a new nuclear plant in southeast Texas and plans to expend substantial resources for evaluation, development and permitting of the project, site acquisition and long lead procurement. In addition, Generation is evaluating the development of a 600 megawatt combined cycle natural gas plant in Pennsylvania. Substantial additional resources would be required for the construction of these plants if decisions are made to build. Achieving the intended benefits of a large capital project of this type is subject to a number of uncertainties. Generations results of operations could be adversely affected if Generation were unable to effectively manage its capital projects. Generations long lived assets may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. Generation evaluates the carrying value of long lived assets to be held and used for impairment whenever indications of impairment exist in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 144. The carrying value of long lived assets is considered impaired when the projected undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value. In that event, a loss would be recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value. Fair value is determined primarily by available market valuations or, if applicable, discounted cash flows. Factors such as the business climate, including current energy and market conditions, and the condition of an asset are considered when evaluating long lived assets for impairment. An impairment would require Generation to reduce the long lived asset through a charge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations ComEd Exelons and ComEds goodwill may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. Exelon and ComEd both had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2008 in connection with the merger between PECO and Unicom Corporation, the former parent company of ComEd. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. 52 There is a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at ComEd, and at Exelon, in 2009 or later periods, particularly in light of the current economic environment. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, results of ComEds rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. Such a potential impairment would be a noncash charge, which could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on goodwill impairments. Increases in customer rates and the impact of economic downturns may lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increasing rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease ComEds results from operations and cash flows. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities from terminating electric service to an Illinois residential space heating customer due to nonpayment, extending from December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. As a result, ComEd may be delayed in stopping service to customers who are delinquent in their bills, which could increase ComEds bad debt expense. ComEds current procurement plan includes purchasing power through contracted suppliers and the spot market. Purchased power prices fluctuate based on the supply and demand for electricity, which could lead to higher customer bills and potentially additional uncollectible expense. Increased purchased power and or delivery service cost rates to customers and economic downturns may lead customers to decrease their usage patterns, which may result in lower operating income. An increase in uncollectible account expense or a decrease in revenue due to lower deliveries would negatively impact ComEds results from operations and cash flows. ComEd would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties in the event that it were to lose its investment grade rating while certain wholesale market conditions exist. Some of ComEds energy procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and ComEd were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required under some of its energy procurement contracts and the financial swap contract with Generation to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. If ComEd had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, ComEd would have been required to provide approximately $282 million in additional collateral. ComEds procurement contract collateral requirements are a function of market prices. Collateral posting will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if ComEd were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. On October 3, 2008, Moodys upgraded ComEds long term senior unsecured ratings. As a result of this upgrade, PJM allowed ComEd to move from a position of no unsecured credit to an unsecured credit limit of $20 million in accordance with PJMs credit policy. Additionally, as of December 31, 2008, 53 ComEd had a $140 million letter of credit with PJM. If ComEd were to have its credit rating reduced to below investment grade, it would have been required to provide the entire unsecured credit of $20 million in additional collateral to PJM. ComEd could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry or ComEd has deteriorated. ComEd could experience a downgrade if the current supportive regulatory environment in Illinois became less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the state as a means of managing higher electric prices. Additionally, ComEds rating could be downgraded if ComEds financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to ComEd failing to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of ComEd. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Security Ratings for additional information. PECO The impact of economic downturns may lead to lower revenues and greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increasing rates could lead to a decrease in volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease PECOs results from operations and cash flows. The cost of PECOs purchased power, which is provided by Generation through a PPA, is capped as part of the transition period through 2010. For service following the end of PECOs transition period, PECO will purchase power on the open market which may significantly increase the cost of power PECO procures and in turn increase costs to the customer. The increase in rates could cause customer usage to decrease, resulting in lower transmission and distribution revenues and lower profit margins for PECO. Gas rates charged to PECO customers are comprised primarily of purchased natural gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to PECO, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to PECO. Purchased natural gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customers bill and may be adjusted quarterly, are designed for PECO to recover the cost of the natural gas commodity and pipeline transportation and storage services that PECO procures to service its customers. Gas rates may change quarterly based on market conditions, which may lead to higher prices. PECOs cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when natural gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. When purchased natural gas cost charges increase substantially reflecting higher natural gas procurement costs incurred by PECO, customer usage may decrease, resulting in lower distribution charges and lower profit margins for PECO. In addition, increased purchased natural gas and purchased power cost charges to customers, economic downturns and the related limitations on service termination may result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances, which would negatively impact PECOs results from operations and cash flows. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECO would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties in the event that it were to experience a downgrade in its credit rating or fall below investment grade. As of a result of the S&P downgrade of PECOs corporate credit rating on October 21, 2008, PJM reduced PECOs unsecured credit limit to $20 million in accordance with PJMs credit policy. As a result of this action, PECO was required to provide to PJM $90 million in collateral in the form of a 54 letter of credit on October 24, 2008. If PECO were to have its credit rating reduced to below investment grade, it would be required to provide approximately $20 million in additional collateral to PJM. In addition, certain of PECOs natural gas procurement contracts contain provisions that may require PECO to provide collateral or other adequate assurance of performance if PECO fails to satisfy the credit standards of its counterparties, such as PECO losing its investment grade credit rating. The collateral could be provided in the form of letters of credit, cash or other agreeable security. Also, PECO may be required to immediately pay all outstanding payables to its natural gas suppliers at that time. These requirements may have an adverse effect upon PECOs liquidity. If PECO had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, PECO could have been required to provide approximately $135 million in collateral under its natural gas procurement contracts. In addition, if PECO were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. PECO could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry or PECO has deteriorated. PECO could experience a downgrade if the current supportive regulatory environment in Pennsylvania became less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the state as a means of managing higher electric prices or if Pennsylvania legislators seriously consider an extension of the existing rate caps. Additionally, the rating could be downgraded if PECOs financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to PECO failing to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of PECO. Due to PECOs dependence on Generation to fulfill 100% of its electric energy supply requirements under a PPA, PECO could be negatively affected in the event of Generations inability to perform under the PPA. PECO currently acquires 100% of its electric energy and capacity requirements under a PPA with Generation. In accordance with the PPA, the current electric generation rates that PECO pays have been fixed and will continue to be fixed through 2010. In the event that Generation could not perform under the PPA, PECO would be forced to purchase electric energy from alternative sources at potentially higher rates. While PECO believes that this event is unlikely to occur, such an event could have a negative impact on PECOs results of operations and financial position. PECO may be subject to the risk of a legislative or regulatory mandated requirement to purchase Philadelphia Gas Works (PGW). PGW is a municipal gas utility owned by the City of Philadelphia that provides service almost exclusively within Philadelphia. A Pennsylvania state legislator has previously submitted legislation to the Pennsylvania General Assembly that would provide the PAPUC with the authority to investigate PGWs fitness to provide gas service and, if deemed unfit, to require a qualified public utility to purchase PGWs gas assets. If such legislation is enacted, PECO, with a natural gas service territory contiguous to and an electric service territory that includes Philadelphia, could be subject to a proceeding in which efforts are made to require PECO to purchase PGWs gas assets. While PECO believes that such a forced purchase would be unlawful, such a proceeding could expose PECO potentially to significant economic and political risk. 55 ComEd and PECO The following risk factors separately apply to both ComEd and PECO as additionally noted below. Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including rates for the procurement of electricity or gas and the recovery of MGP remediation costs. In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are typically subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators for establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations to provide electricity service to certain groups of customers in its service area who choose to obtain their electricity from the utility. The ultimate outcome of these regulatory actions will have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, lengthy proceedings and time delays in implementing new rates relative to when costs are actually incurred could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. ComEd and PECO are likely to be subject to higher transmission operating costs in the future as a result of PJMs RTEP and the rate design between PJM and MISO. In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJMs RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint for new facilities greater than or equal to 500 kV, and requires costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. FERC stated that PJMs stakeholders should develop a standard method for allocating costs of new transmission facilities lower than 500 kV. ComEd and PECO cannot estimate the longer term impact on their respective results of operations and cash flows because of the uncertainties relating to what new facilities will be built and the cost of building those facilities. In 2007, ComEd and PECO and almost all other transmission owners in PJM and the Midwest ISO (MISO), as directed by a FERC order issued in 2004, filed with FERC to continue the existing transmission rate design between PJM and MISO. Other transmission owners and certain other parties 56 have filed protests urging FERC to reject the filing. On January 31, 2008, FERC accepted the filing. An additional complaint was filed asking FERC to substitute a rate design that allocates the costs of all existing and new transmission facilities at 345 kV and above across PJM and MISO. On January 31, 2008, FERC denied the complaint. A request for rehearing of those orders has been filed, and any decision may then be subject to review in the United States Court of Appeals. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the outcome of this litigation. The impact of not meeting the criteria of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS No. 71) could be material to ComEd and PECO. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd, and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2008, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.4 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2008, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $2.5 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against other comprehensive income (before taxes) of up to $2.7 billion and $149 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities also could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 1, 3, 7 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Mandatory Federal or additional state energy conservation and RPS legislation could negatively affect the costs and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. Federal legislation mandating specific energy conservation measures or changes to existing state laws requiring the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO if timely recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for renewable energy credits and purchased power as well as significant increases in capital expenditures. There is no certainty that ComEd or PECO would be permitted sufficient or timely recovery of related costs in rates. Furthermore, energy conservation measures could lead to a decline in energy consumption and ultimately the revenues of ComEd and PECO. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential 57 concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the transmission and delivery of electricity and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including weather. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. The effects of weather and the related impact on electricity and gas usage may decrease ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd and PECO typically report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive, and the costs of capital projects may be significant. ComEds and PECOs businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. ComEds and PECOs results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if they are unable to effectively manage their own respective capital projects, if they are unable to raise the necessary capital, or if they do not receive full recovery of their own respective capital costs through future regulatory proceedings in a timely manner. A reduction of Exelons credit rating could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. Each of ComEd and PECO is a corporation separate and distinct from Exelon and Exelons other subsidiaries, and ComEd and PECO conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements and procedures intended to assure that ComEd and PECO are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate ComEd and PECO from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as ringfencing) may help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ringfencing measures, the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of 58 Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. A reduction in the credit rating of ComEd or PECO could have a material adverse effect on ComEd or PECO, respectively. Proposed Acquisition of NRG Exelon may not successfully complete its proposed acquisition of NRG. On October 19, 2008, Exelon announced a proposal to acquire NRG. On November 12, 2008, Exelon launched an exchange offer pursuant to which it offered to acquire all of NRGs common stock in exchange for Exelon common stock at a fixed exchange ratio of .485 of a share of Exelon common stock for each share of NRG common stock. As of February 6, 2009, NRG remains opposed to Exelons proposed acquisition. There are a number of conditions to the completion of the transactions contemplated by Exelons exchange offer and there can be no assurances that the transaction will be completed on the terms stated in the exchange offer. If Exelon is successful in its proposed acquisition of NRG, Exelon may not be able to realize all of the benefits expected to be derived from the acquisition. Exelon proposed its acquisition of NRG because the transaction is expected to create value for shareholders of Exelon and NRG through synergies and various other expected benefits. Failure to effectively integrate the business of NRG with the businesses of Exelon could result in a reduction or loss of the synergies expected to result from the combination of the two companies. The transaction could also result in increased or unexpected costs or diversion of management time and attention and management focus, which could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results and prospects of the combined company. Exelons indebtedness following the consummation of an acquisition of NRG will be higher than Exelons existing indebtedness. Therefore, it may be more difficult for Exelon to pay or refinance its debts, and Exelon may need to divert its cash flow from operations to debt service payments. The additional indebtedness could limit Exelons ability to pursue other strategic opportunities and increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. Exelons total indebtedness as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $13,151 million. Exelons pro forma total indebtedness, based on the most recent publicly available information for NRG as of September 30, 2008, after giving effect to the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding shares of NRG common stock and the refinancing, repurchase, redemption or other restructuring of NRGs indebtedness and certain other obligations is expected to be approximately $21,164 million. The estimated amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including decommissioning liabilities, of NRG that would be assumed or refinanced is based solely on publicly available information and there may be additional indebtedness or obligations not included in this estimate of which Exelon is unaware. Exelons debt service obligations with respect to this increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on its earnings and cash flows for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. Exelons increased indebtedness as a result of the proposed acquisition of NRG could have a significant impact on Exelons business and its future results of operations and cash flows. It could: make it more difficult for Exelon to pay or refinance its debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause Exelon to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make its scheduled debt payments; limit Exelons flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in its business and the industry in which it operates and, consequently, place Exelon at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors with less debt; 59 require a substantial portion of Exelons cash flows from operations for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and other general corporate purposes; result in a downgrade in the rating of Exelons indebtedness, which could limit Exelons ability to borrow additional funds or increase the interest rates applicable to Exelons indebtedness (following the public announcement of Exelons proposal to acquire NRG, on October 21, 2008, Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) lowered its corporate credit rating on Exelon, Generation and PECO to BBB from BBB+ and lowered the senior unsecured ratings of Exelon to BBB from BBB and of Generation to BBB from BBB+ and of PECOs senior secured debt to A from A; and in addition, the ratings of Exelon and all of its subsidiaries, including ComEd, were placed on CreditWatch by S&P with negative implications); reduce the amount of credit available to Exelon and its subsidiaries to support their power trading and hedging activities; and result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of Exelons borrowings are, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest. Potential measures to protect investment grade ratings include issuing additional equity, sale of assets, or reducing dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. Based upon current levels of operations and anticipated growth, Exelon expects to be able to generate sufficient cash flow to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under Exelons existing credit facilities, the indentures governing Exelons existing notes, the financing that will be necessary to refinance all existing indebtedness of NRG that is required to be paid in connection with the acquisition of NRG, and NRGs indebtedness that may remain outstanding, but there can be no assurance that Exelon will be able to repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations. The terms that may be included in debt agreements entered into by Exelon in connection with the acquisition of NRG may impose many restrictions on Exelon. A failure by Exelon to comply with any of these restrictions could result in the acceleration of Exelons debt. Were this to occur, Exelon might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient cash to pay the accelerated indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants that may be included in debt agreements entered into by Exelon in connection with the acquisition of NRG may adversely affect Exelons ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in new business activities or certain corporate transactions. Exelons existing debt agreements require that the ratio of Exelons cash from operations to interest expense equal or exceed a specified level, and the terms that may be included in debt agreements entered into by Exelon in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the exchange offer may require compliance with additional financial ratios. As a result of these covenants and ratios, Exelon may be limited in the manner in which it can conduct its business, and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit Exelons ability to successfully operate its business. A failure to comply with these restrictions or to maintain the financial ratios contained in the existing and future debt agreements could lead to an event of default that could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. Exelon cannot provide assurances that its future operating results will be sufficient to ensure compliance with the covenants in its existing and future debt agreements or to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of an acceleration of its indebtedness, Exelon may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. Exelon does not 60 expect to refinance existing Exelon debt, including debt incurred at ComEd, PECO and Generation, in connection with the acquisition of NRG, and the consummation of the exchange offer will not result in any acceleration of such debt. Exelon has only conducted a review of NRGs publicly available information and has not had access to NRGs non public information. Therefore, Exelon may be subject to unknown liabilities of NRG which may have a material adverse effect on Exelons financial condition and results of operations. As of February 6, 2009, Exelon has only conducted a due diligence review of NRGs publicly available information. The consummation of the exchange offer may constitute a default, or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default, or result in the termination, cancellation, acceleration or other change of any right or obligation (including, without limitation, any payment obligation) under agreements of NRG that are not publicly available, including any power trading agreements relating to NRGs first and second lien structure. As a result, after the consummation of the exchange offer and the second step merger, Exelon may be subject to unknown liabilities of NRG, including, without limitation, any exposure relating to NRGs trading and hedging activities and outstanding ISDA master agreements, which may have a material adverse effect on Exelons financial condition and results of operations, which Exelon might have otherwise discovered if Exelon had been permitted by NRG to conduct a complete due diligence review of NRGs non public information. The acquisition is subject to various regulatory approvals, and obtaining such approvals may delay or prevent Exelons acquisition of NRG or may require divestitures. Exelon must receive approval from and or make filings with various foreign, Federal and state regulatory agencies with respect to the acquisition of shares of NRG common stock in the exchange offer. These approvals include the approval of FERC under the Federal Power Act, the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act and various utility regulatory, antitrust and other authorities in the United States and elsewhere. The governmental entities from which these approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition, require changes to the terms of the acquisition or impose additional obligations on regulated subsidiaries of Exelon and NRG. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the acquisition or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company, any of which might have a material adverse effect on the combined company following completion of the acquisition. Exelon cannot provide any assurance that the necessary approvals will be obtained or that there will not be any adverse consequences to Exelons or NRGs business resulting from the failure to obtain these regulatory approvals or from conditions that could be imposed in connection with obtaining these approvals, including divestitures or other operating restrictions upon Exelon, NRG, the combined company or its subsidiaries. Required regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner and could result in a significant delay in the consummation of the acquisition. The market price of Exelon common stock may decline as a result of the exchange offer and the second step merger. The market price of Exelon common stock may decline as a result of the exchange offer and the second step merger if, among other things: the integration of NRGs business into the business of Exelon is unsuccessful; Exelon does not achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition of NRG as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors; or a downgrade in the rating of Exelons indebtedness occurs as a result of Exelons increased indebtedness incurred to finance the transaction. 61 In connection with the exchange offer and the second step merger, as of December 31, 2008, Exelon estimates that it could issue 123,051,030 shares of Exelon common stock. The increase in the number of shares of Exelons common stock issued may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, Exelon common stock. Uncertainties exist in integrating the business and operations of Exelon and NRG. Exelon intends, to the extent possible, to integrate NRGs operations with those of Exelon. Although Exelon believes that the integration of NRGs operations into Exelons will not present any significant difficulties, there can be no assurance that Exelon will not encounter substantial difficulties integrating NRGs operations with Exelons operations, resulting in a delay or the failure to achieve the anticipated synergies and, therefore, the expected cost savings and resulting increases in cash flow and earnings. The possible difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other things: possible inconsistencies in standards, management models, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between NRG and Exelon; the retention of key employees; the integration and consolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures, including computer information systems; the integration of each companys power trading organizations, including the hedging practices of each company; the restructuring of businesses within the two companies to properly align business units; the possible diversion of managements attention from ongoing business concerns; and the possibility of costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of the operations of the combined company. Even if the exchange offer is completed, full integration of NRGs operations with Exelons may be delayed if Exelon is unable to solicit proxies from NRG stockholders in a sufficient amount to approve the second step merger. The exchange offer is subject to a condition that, before the expiration of the offer, there shall have been validly tendered and not withdrawn at least a majority of shares of the NRG common stock on a fully diluted basis. At the end of the offer period, Exelon may solicit proxies in connection with a long form merger to exchange the remaining shares of NRG common stock for Exelon common stock. Any failure or delay in the solicitation of proxies needed to approve the second step merger could prevent or delay Exelon from realizing some or all of the anticipated benefits from the integration of NRGs operations with Exelons operations. The acquisition could trigger certain provisions contained in NRGs employee benefit plans or other agreements that could require Exelon to make change of control payments or permit a counter party to an agreement with NRG to terminate that agreement. Certain of NRGs employee benefit plans contain change of control clauses providing for compensation to be granted to certain members of NRG senior management if, following a change of control, NRG terminates the employment relationship between NRG and these employees, or if these employees terminate the employment relationship because their respective positions with NRG have materially changed. If successful, the acquisition would constitute a change of control of NRG, thereby giving rise to potential change of control payments. 62 Because Exelon has not had the opportunity to review NRGs non public information, there may be agreements that permit a counter party to terminate an agreement with NRG because the exchange offer or the second step merger would cause a default or violate an anti assignment, change of control or similar clause. If this happens, Exelon may have to seek to replace that agreement with a new agreement. Exelon cannot provide assurances that it will be able to replace a terminated agreement on comparable terms or at all. Depending on the importance of a terminated agreement to NRGs business, failure to replace that agreement on similar terms or at all may increase the costs to Exelon of operating NRGs business or prevent Exelon from operating part or all of NRGs business. In addition, the consummation of the exchange offer or the second step merger may constitute a default, or an event that, with or without notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default, or result in the termination, cancellation, acceleration or other change of any right or obligation (including, without limitation, any payment obligation) under agreements of NRG that are not publicly available, including any power trading agreements relating to NRGs first and second lien structure. The consummation of the exchange offer may accelerate NRGs existing indebtedness. The consummation of the acquisition of NRG pursuant to the exchange offer likely will require the refinancing of existing indebtedness of NRG. Exelon estimates that as of December 31, 2008, this refinancing and certain other payments required to complete the transaction will total in the aggregate approximately $8.6 billion, including the following: Payments to holders of the $4.7 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding of NRG senior notes who will have the right under such notes to require NRG to repurchase the senior notes at 101% of their face value upon the consummation of the exchange offer. Approximately $2.65 billion to refinance the $2.65 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding under NRGs Term B Loan, which outstanding amount will accelerate and become immediately due and payable upon consummation of the exchange offer. Approximately $375 million to refinance certain other indebtedness and other obligations of NRG and its subsidiaries. Up to $250 million in payments to holders of NRGs 3.625% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock who will have the right to require NRG to repurchase such stock at 100% of its liquidation preference (a repurchase price of approximately $250 million in the aggregate) upon consummation of the exchange offer. In addition, Exelon will be required to provide for the issuance of new letters of credit as a backstop facility in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1 billion due to the anticipated termination of NRGs letter of credit facility arising from the consummation of the exchange offer. Exelon may not be able to refinance NRGs existing debt, or such refinancing may be only on conditions that are not favorable to Exelon, either of which may have an adverse effect on the value of Exelon common stock. If Exelon does not control NRG and is unable to complete the second step merger, Exelon may not be able to assist NRG in refinancing debt that becomes due as a result of the consummation of the exchange offer, which may have an adverse effect on the value of NRG common stock. The amount of indebtedness and other obligations of NRG that may need to be refinanced are based solely on publicly available information and therefore there may be additional NRG indebtedness or obligations not included in Exelons estimates of which Exelon is unaware. 63 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2008: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Nuclear (d) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,065 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,740 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,295 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50.00 Uranium Base load 1,140 (e) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75.00 Uranium Base load 1,303 (e) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 994 (e) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 16,983 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (e) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Intermediate 144 Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Intermediate 588 Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 870 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 395 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (e) Mountain Creek 6, 7 Dallas, TX 2 Gas Peaking 240 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 565 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (e) 4,734 Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 386 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 29 (continued on next page) 64 Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 152 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 105 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 12 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 296 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,437 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (e) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 572 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 1,642 Total 124 24,809 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of low efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels and pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. (c) For nuclear stations capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations reflect a summer rating. (d) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (e) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities, level of water supplies and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 65 ComEd ComEds electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that ComEd owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. ComEd believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements, licenses and franchise rights; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution ComEds higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2008 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 765,000 90 345,000 2,634 138,000 2,877 69,000 149 ComEds electric distribution system includes 44,373 circuit miles of overhead lines and 36,880 cable miles of underground lines. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal plants and properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds first mortgage bonds are issued. ComEd maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd. PECO PECOs electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that PECO owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. PECO believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements and licenses; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution PECOs higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2008 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 500,000 188(a) 230,000 541 138,000 156 69,000 188 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. 66 PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,948 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,680 cable miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs natural gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2008: Pipeline Miles Transportation 31 Distribution 6,691 Service piping 5,588 Total 12,310 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal plants and properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first and refunding mortgage bonds are issued. PECO maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of PECO. Exelon Security Measures The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans, long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry has strategic relationships with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. 67 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 68 PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 30, 2009, there were 658,242,488 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 139,903 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2008 2007 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 65.55 $ 91.64 $ 90.92 $ 86.52 $ 86.83 $ 82.60 $ 79.38 $ 72.31 Low price 45.00 61.16 82.22 73.04 73.76 64.73 68.67 58.74 Close 55.61 62.62 89.96 81.27 81.64 75.36 72.60 68.71 Dividends 0.525 0.500 0.500 0.500 0.440 0.440 0.440 0.440 The attached table gives information on a monthly basis regarding purchases made by Exelon of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2008. Period Total Number ofShares Purchased (a) Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares PurchasedAs Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs (b) Maximum Number(or ApproximateDollar Value) ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs October 1 October 31, 2008 11,221 $ 65.48 (b ) November 1 November 30, 2008 (b ) December 1 December 31, 2008 1,998 64.83 (b ) Total 13,219 65.38 (b ) (a) Shares other than those purchased as a part of a publicly announced plan primarily represent restricted shares surrendered by employees to satisfy tax obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted shares. (b) In April 2004, Exelons Board of Directors approved a discretionary share repurchase program that allows Exelon to repurchase shares of its common stock on a periodic basis in the open market. The share repurchase program is intended to mitigate, in part, the dilutive effect of shares issued under Exelons employee stock option plan and Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The aggregate shares of common stock repurchased pursuant to the program cannot exceed the economic benefit received after January 1, 2004 due to stock option exercises and share purchases pursuant to Exelons Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The economic benefit consists of direct cash proceeds from purchases of stock and tax benefits associated with exercises of stock options. The 2004 share repurchase program has no specified limit and no specified termination date. In addition, on August 31, 2007 and December 19, 2007, Exelons Board of Directors approved share repurchase programs for up to $1.25 billion and $500 million, respectively, of Exelons outstanding common stock in connection with Exelons value return policy, which uses share repurchases from time to time to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. See Note 16 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Exelons share repurchase programs. 69 Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below illustrates a five year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Exelon Corporation common stock, as compared with the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Utility Index for the period 2004 through 2008. This performance chart assumes: $100 invested on December 31, 2003 in Exelon Corporation common stock, in the S&P 500 Stock Index and in the S&P Utility Index; and All dividends are reinvested. Generation As of January 30, 2009, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. 70 ComEd As of January 30, 2009, there were 127,016,519 outstanding shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were indirectly held by Exelon. At January 30, 2009, in addition to Exelon, there were 265 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. PECO As of January 30, 2009, there were 170,478,507 outstanding shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were indirectly held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. While these restrictions may limit the absolute amount of dividends that a particular subsidiary may pay, Exelon does not believe these limitations are materially limiting because, under these limitations, the subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends sufficient to meet Exelons actual cash needs. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing III that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to ComEd Financing III; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of ComEd Financing III; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred stock. At December 31, 2008, such capital was $2.7 billion and amounted to about 31 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred stock of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PECO Energy Capital, L.P. (PEC L.P.) or PECO Energy Capital Trust IV (PECO Trust IV); (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. 71 At December 31, 2008, Exelon had retained earnings of $6.8 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,323 million, ComEds retained earnings of $170 million consisting of an unappropriated retained earnings of $1,809 million, partially offset by $(1,639) million of retained deficits appropriated for future dividends and PECOs retained earnings of $389 million. The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2008 and 2007: 2008 2007 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.525 $ 0.500 $ 0.500 $ 0.500 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 $ 0.440 The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2008 2007 (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 301 $ 253 $ 302 $ 689 $ 261 $ 1,431 $ 370 $ 295 PECO 98 146 97 139 108 178 121 155 On January 27, 2009, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2009, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 13, 2009. This dividend declaration was made by the Exelon Board of Directors under a value return policy that established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. The value return policy contemplates the use of share repurchases from time to time, when authorized by the Board of Directors, to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value added growth opportunities. During 2008, 2007, and 2006, ComEd did not pay a dividend in order to manage cash flows and its capital structure. On January 26, 2009, the ComEd board declared a dividend of $0.472 per share on its common stock. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend in future periods. 72 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 18,859 $ 18,916 $ 15,655 $ 15,357 $ 14,133 Operating income 5,299 4,668 3,521 2,724 3,499 Income from continuing operations $ 2,717 $ 2,726 $ 1,590 $ 951 $ 1,870 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 20 10 2 14 (29 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,737 2,736 1,592 965 1,841 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (42 ) 23 Net income (a) $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 923 $ 1,864 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 4.10 $ 4.03 $ 2.35 $ 1.40 $ 2.79 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.03 0.02 0.02 (0.04 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (0.06 ) 0.03 Net income $ 4.13 $ 4.05 $ 2.35 $ 1.36 $ 2.78 Dividends per common share $ 2.03 $ 1.76 $ 1.60 $ 1.60 $ 1.26 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 662 676 676 676 669 (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006; 2006 and 2005; and 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, in millions 2008 2007 (b) 2006 (b) 2005 (b) 2004 (b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 5,368 $ 4,580 $ 4,214 $ 3,886 $ 3,578 Property, plant and equipment, net 25,813 24,153 22,775 21,981 21,482 Noncurrent regulatory assets 5,940 5,133 5,808 4,734 5,076 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,625 2,694 3,475 4,705 Other deferred debits and other assets 8,071 8,870 7,974 7,910 7,748 Total assets $ 47,817 $ 45,361 $ 43,465 $ 41,986 $ 42,589 Current liabilities $ 4,080 $ 5,629 $ 4,977 $ 5,839 $ 4,522 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 12,592 11,965 11,911 11,760 12,148 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 2,520 3,301 3,025 2,518 2,490 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 17,491 14,242 13,458 12,656 13,811 Minority interest 1 42 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 11,047 10,137 10,007 9,125 9,489 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 47,817 $ 45,361 $ 43,465 $ 41,986 $ 42,589 73 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charge of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. (b) Exelon and Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with FIN 39 as amended by FSP FIN 39 1. Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 9,046 $ 7,703 Operating income 3,994 3,392 2,396 1,852 1,039 Income from continuing operations $ 2,258 $ 2,025 $ 1,403 $ 1,109 $ 657 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 20 4 4 19 (16 ) Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,278 2,029 1,407 1,128 641 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (30 ) 32 Net income $2,278 $2,029 $1,407 $1,098 $673 December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 (a) 2006 (a) 2005 (a) 2004 (a) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,724 $ 2,324 $ 2,655 $ 2,289 $ 2,019 Property, plant and equipment, net 8,907 8,043 7,514 7,464 7,536 Deferred debits and other assets 7,724 8,154 7,886 7,160 6,462 Total assets $ 20,355 $ 18,521 $ 18,055 $ 16,913 $ 16,017 Current liabilities $ 2,437 $ 2,080 $ 2,096 $ 2,676 $ 2,102 Long term debt 2,502 2,513 1,778 1,788 2,583 Deferred credits and other liabilities 8,850 9,558 8,697 8,467 8,249 Minority interest 1 1 1 2 44 Members equity 6,565 4,369 5,483 3,980 3,039 Total liabilities and members equity $ 20,355 $ 18,521 $ 18,055 $ 16,913 $ 16,017 (a) Exelon and Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with FIN 39 as amended by FSP FIN 39 1. 74 ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 6,136 $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 6,264 $ 5,803 Operating income (loss) 667 512 555 (12 ) 1,617 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 201 $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (676 ) $ 676 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (9 ) Net income (loss) (a) $ 201 $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (685 ) $ 676 (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006; 2006 and 2005 and 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,309 $ 1,241 $ 1,007 $ 1,024 $ 1,196 Property, plant and equipment, net 11,655 11,127 10,457 9,906 9,463 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,625 2,694 3,475 4,705 Noncurrent regulatory assets 858 503 532 280 240 Other deferred debits and other assets 2,790 3,880 3,084 2,806 2,077 Total assets $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 Current liabilities $ 1,153 $ 1,712 $ 1,600 $ 2,308 $ 1,764 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 4,915 4,384 4,133 3,541 4,282 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 2,440 3,447 2,824 2,450 2,444 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 3,994 3,305 2,919 2,796 2,451 Shareholders equity 6,735 6,528 6,298 6,396 6,740 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 $ 17,681 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 and between 2005 and 2004 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 75 PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,567 $ 5,613 $ 5,168 $ 4,910 $ 4,487 Operating income 699 947 866 1,049 1,014 Income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle $ 325 $ 507 $ 441 $ 520 $ 455 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (3 ) Net income $ 325 $ 507 $ 441 $ 517 $ 455 Net income on common stock $ 321 $ 503 $ 437 $ 513 $ 452 December 31, (in millions) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 819 $ 800 $ 762 $ 795 $ 727 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,074 4,842 4,651 4,471 4,329 Noncurrent regulatory assets 2,597 3,273 3,896 4,454 4,836 Other deferred debits and other assets 679 895 464 366 241 Total assets $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 Current liabilities $ 981 $ 1,516 $ 978 $ 936 $ 748 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 2,960 2,866 3,784 4,143 4,628 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 49 250 151 68 46 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,910 3,068 3,051 3,235 3,313 Shareholders equity 2,269 2,110 1,809 1,704 1,398 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 $ 10,133 76 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon is a utility services holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following operating segments: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Exelons corporate operations, some of which are performed through its business services subsidiary, Exelon Business Services Company, LLC (BSC), provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $2,737 million in 2008 as compared to $2,736 million in 2007 and diluted earnings per average common share were $4.13 for 2008 as compared to $4.05 for 2007. The following factors contributed to an increase in net income: higher average realized margins at Generation; net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities; increased transmission and delivery service revenue at ComEd in 2008 resulting from the 2007 transmission and distribution rate cases; the impact of the decreased charges in 2008 associated with the 2007 Illinois Settlement; and a 2007 loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska Offsetting these factors above are the following decreases in net income: net unrealized and realized losses on Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to the former AmerGen nuclear generating units and the unregulated portions of the Peach Bottom nuclear generating units (Unregulated Units); 77 increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense; income associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities in 2007; and the impact of the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in 2007. See Exelon Corporation Results of Operations for further information regarding the changes in net income. Economic Environment. As the economic environment has worsened, the Registrants have performed additional assessments to determine the impact, if any, of recent market developments, including the bankruptcy, restructuring or merging of certain financial and energy companies, on the Registrants financial statements. The Registrants additional assessments have included a review of macroeconomic conditions, access to liquidity in the capital and credit markets, counterparty creditworthiness, value of the Registrants investments (particularly in the employee benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust funds) and exposure to other risks. The recent unprecedented volatility in the economy may create additional risks in the upcoming months and possibly years. Macroeconomic conditions U.S. and global economic conditions worsened significantly in the last quarter of 2008. The stress caused to international credit markets, initially driven in large part by the devaluation of risky U.S. subprime debt, led to a dramatic tightening in liquidity. The U.S. government has responded with several initiatives to alleviate the strain on the financial markets. While these programs have had some positive effects on financial systems, credit remains tight and economic conditions in the U.S. and globally have continued to deteriorate. The slowdown, initially led by housing declines in specific regional markets, has spread to encompass almost the entire U.S. economy. Both industrial production and consumer spending have fallen sharply in the last half of 2008, while the U.S. unemployment rate has increased. As a result of the decline in economic output, energy demand in ComEds and PECOs service territories is lower, which has led to reduced sales to industrial, commercial and residential customers. Lower demand for electricity may also lead to lower margins for Exelons wholesale fleet, although this effect will be mitigated in the short term by Exelons hedging policies. In addition, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of their utility bills. Management has taken steps to mitigate this risk through heightened collection efforts. In addition, the world slowdown in economic activity has reduced demand for oil, coal and natural gas, and has led to sharply falling commodity prices. By the end of 2008, Eastern coal, oil and gas were trading at less than half of their prices at the summer peak. As a result, wholesale electricity prices in the U.S. have fallen. Due to Exelons hedging policies, as described in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, it has had limited exposure to lower power prices in the short term; however, prolonged lower commodity prices would adversely impact Exelons results of operations in the future. Liquidity in the capital and credit markets The Registrants believe they have sufficient liquidity despite the disruption of the capital and credit markets. The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flow from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large, diversified credit facilities ($7.3 billion in aggregate total commitments with $6.9 billion available as of December 31, 2008, of which no financial institution, assuming announced consolidations, has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation and PECO and 12% for ComEd). Generation and ComEd also have additional letter of 78 credit facilities used solely to enhance tax exempt variable rate debt. Certain of these letters of credit will expire in 2009 ($311 million and $194 million at Generation and ComEd, respectively), which the Registrants plan to extend or substitute. See Variable Rate Debt within Liquidity and Capital Resources for further detail on these credit facilities. While not significant to the Registrants to date, the disruptions in capital and credit markets may result in increased borrowing costs associated with short term and long term debt. The Registrants accelerated a number of bond issuances in 2008 in order to limit the risk of volatility in the credit markets and to enhance liquidity. As more fully discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, the Registrants completed all their long term financings planned for 2008. With the exception of debt to unconsolidated financing affiliates, the Registrants have $29 million of debt maturing in 2009 ($12 million and $17 million at Generation and ComEd, respectively) and $613 million of debt maturing in 2010 ($400 million and $213 million at Exelon Corporate and ComEd, respectively). The debt to unconsolidated financing affiliates at PECO is repaid through the collection of competitive transition charges from customers as allowed by restructuring legislation that was adopted in Pennsylvania in 1996. The Registrants routinely review liquidity sufficiency, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Management continues to closely monitor events and the financial institutions associated with its credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the effects of a longer term disruption in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. Counterparty creditworthiness The Registrants are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations or the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. Generations power marketing activities are governed by risk management policies limiting transactions to a diversified group of high quality counterparties. During 2008, the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the weakening of companies within the energy industry have underscored the importance of these risk management practices. Although Generations credit exposure was predominately with investment grade companies at December 31, 2008, changes in forward market prices could have a disproportionate impact to the percentage of credit exposure with non investment grade companies. As of December 31, 2008, the net exposure after credit collateral for Generations commodity contracts of $1,143 million included $1,119 million of exposure to investment grade companies and $24 million of exposure to non investment grade companies, primarily in the coal supply industry. As a result of managements review of Generations counterparties, the direct net exposure of $22 million to Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc., a counterparty in wholesale energy marketing transactions, was fully reserved and charged to expense in the third quarter of 2008. As further discussed below, Generation also currently procures uranium concentrates through long term contracts. Approximately 60% of the requirements from 2009 through 2013 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Management continues to closely monitor the status of Generations counterparties and will take action, as appropriate, to further manage its counterparty credit risk. Under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, ComEd procures power through supplier forward contracts, standard block energy purchases, and spot market purchases. Collateral postings are required only of suppliers for the supplier forward contracts that ComEd entered into with winning 79 suppliers from the Illinois auction, including Generation. The standard block energy purchases require collateral postings from both ComEd and the counterparty suppliers, including Generation, should exposures between forward market prices and benchmark price levels exceed established unsecured credit limits outlined in the agreements. In the event the counterparties fail to perform, ComEd might be forced to purchase power through an RFP process or in the spot markets at less favorable prices. As of December 31, 2008, there was no cash collateral or letters of credit posted between suppliers and ComEd. The potential failure of energy suppliers to perform is mitigated by ComEds ability to recover its actual costs to procure power as stipulated in the Illinois Settlement Legislation as well as the ICC approved procurement tariff. PECO has counterparty credit risk related to its electricity and natural gas suppliers. Generation provides 100% of PECOs electric energy under a purchase power agreement (PPA). There are no collateral posting provisions included in PECOs electric supply agreement with Generation. PECO procures natural gas from suppliers under both short term and long term contracts. The potential failure of natural gas suppliers to perform is mitigated by PECOs ability to seek recovery of its actual costs to procure natural gas through the PAPUCs purchased gas cost clause, subject to PAPUC review. A further discussion of counterparty risk is included in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Value of investments (particularly in employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trust funds) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for the employees of the Registrants. The Registrants believe that the oversight of the investments held under Exelons employee benefit plans is rigorous and that the investment strategies are prudent. The market value of the investments within the employee benefit plan trusts declined by approximately 26% during the year ended December 31, 2008. The benefit plan assets and obligations of Exelon and AmerGen are remeasured annually using a December 31 measurement date. Reductions in plan assets from investment losses during 2008 was a significant driver contributing to an increase of approximately $3.9 billion to the plans unfunded status upon actuarial revaluation of the plan on December 31, 2008. Changes in the value of plan assets did not have an impact on the income statement for 2008; however, the change in value resulted in an after tax reduction of shareholders equity of approximately $1.5 billion. Reduced benefit plan assets are expected to result in increased benefit costs and required funding contributions in future years. Such increases could be material to 2009 and subsequent years. Exelon estimates that pension and other postretirement benefits expense will total approximately $425 million in 2009 as compared to approximately $240 million in 2008. See Critical Accounting Policies for additional information regarding the potential impacts of declines in the return on benefit plan assets that is less than assumed and Liquidity and Capital Resources for information regarding future funding requirements. Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established on a unit by unit basis to satisfy Generations nuclear decommissioning obligations. Currently, Generation is making contributions only to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds) with respect to the former PECO units, it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers for the former ComEd units or from the previous owners of the AmerGen plants, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. Generation believes that its oversight of these trust funds is rigorous and the investment strategy is prudent. At December 31, 2008, approximately 39% of the funds were invested in equity and 61% were invested in fixed income securities, with limitations related to concentration and investment grade ratings. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the amounts of unrealized losses on the trust funds during the year ended December 31, 2008. 80 Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels. Depending on the value of the trust funds, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Exelons and Generations cash flows and financial positions may be significantly adversely affected. Generations next report to the NRC is due on March 31, 2009, based on trust fund values and estimated decommissioning obligations as of December 31, 2008. Based on these values, six units at three nuclear generating stations were in an underfunded position by approximately $185 million in total at December 31, 2008, relative to the NRC minimum funding requirements. Exelon and Generation currently are evaluating the remedy that will be used to address the underfunded status. See PART I. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the effects of a longer term disruption in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. Based on a regulatory agreement with the ICC that applies to the former ComEd nuclear generating units on a unit by unit basis, as long as funds held in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds exceed the total estimated decommissioning obligation, decommissioning impacts recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, including realized and unrealized income and losses of the trust funds and accretion of the decommissioning obligation, are generally offset within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Should the trust funds for the former ComEd units continue to experience declines in market value such that the value of the trust funds for any unit falls below the amount of the estimated decommissioning obligation for that unit, the accounting to offset decommissioning impacts in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for that unit would be discontinued, the decommissioning impacts would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and the adverse impact to Exelons and Generations results of operations and financial positions could be material. At December 31, 2008, the trust fund investment values for each of the former ComEd units exceeded the related decommissioning obligation for each of the units. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the former ComEd nuclear generating units as a result of the ICC order. The Registrants engage in a securities lending program with respect to the investments within their employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trust funds. In connection with this program, the securities loaned are supported by collateral posted by the borrowers, which the Registrants invest in a short term collateral fund or in assets with maturities matching, or approximating, the duration of the loan of the related securities. The Registrants bear the risk of loss with respect to their invested cash collateral. Such losses may result from a decline in fair value of specific investments or due to liquidity impairments resulting from current market conditions. Losses recognized by the Registrants have not been significant to date. Exelon has invested collateral of $660 million as of December 31, 2008. Management continues to monitor the performance of the invested collateral and to work closely with the trustees to limit any potential further losses. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Registrants decided to end their participation in the securities lending program and have chosen to initiate a gradual withdrawal of their participation in the securities lending program in order to avoid potential losses on invested cash collateral due to the lack of liquidity in the market. Currently, the weighted average maturity of the securities within the collateral pools is approximately 7.5 months. Exelons withdrawal from the securities lending program based on the maturities of securities within the collateral pools is expected to result in the return of approximately 70% of its loaned securities (in terms of value) by the end of 2009, 94% by the end of 2010 and the return of the remaining securities by the end of 2011. 81 Value of other assets In the fourth quarter of 2008, ComEd assessed its goodwill for impairment and the analysis indicated that there was no impairment. However, the recent economic downturn and the capital and credit market crisis have impacted the market related assumptions, resulting in a significant decrease in the estimated fair value of ComEd since the November 1, 2007 assessment. Further declines could result in an impairment and such a charge could be material. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the goodwill impairment analysis. Generation regularly evaluates the economic viability of its generating plants. Generations plants continue to be economically viable, and Generations review indicated there was no impairment as of December 31, 2008 under a held and used model. See Outlook for 2009 and Beyond Proposal for acquisition of NRG for discussion of Generations evaluation of its Texas generating plants for impairment in connection with the potential divestiture of these plants as a result of Exelons proposed acquisition of NRG. Other risks The Registrants have reviewed their exposure to insurance risk and have concluded that there have been no material changes related to the availability and cost of liability, property, nuclear risk, and other forms of insurance. Management continues to monitor closely events and the ratings for insurance companies associated with its insurance programs. Further declines in the market may have a significant adverse impact on the availability and cost of insurance. Regulatory and Environmental Developments. The following significant regulatory and environmental developments occurred during 2008. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelon Exelon surpassed its U.S. EPA Voluntary Climate Leaders goal announced on May 5, 2005 to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. The GHG management efforts undertaken in support of the goal, including the previous closure of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and its current energy efficiency initiatives, yielded greater than expected reductions. Exelon is in the process of having its GHG reductions verified by a third party and endorsed by U.S. EPA. While Exelon met its goal, on July 15, 2008, Exelon announced a new longer term comprehensive environmental plan, Exelon 2020. ComEd Delivery Service Rate Case On September 10, 2008, the ICC issued its final order in ComEds rate case proceeding that was initiated in October 2007. The order approved an increase in the annual revenue requirement of $274 million, which became effective on September 16, 2008. Transmission Rate Case On January 16, 2008, FERC approved an annual transmission network service revenue requirement for ComEd of approximately $390 million, effective May 1, 2007. The revenue requirement represented an increase of approximately $93 million and was based on a newly approved formula rate model. On May 15, 2008, ComEd filed its first annual formula update filing, which updates ComEds formula rate to include actual 2007 expenses and capital additions plus forecasted 2008 capital additions. The update resulted in a revenue requirement of $430 million, plus an additional $26 million related to the 2007 true up of actual costs for a total increase of approximately $66 million, which became effective for the period June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2009. 82 PECO Gas Distribution Rate Case During 2008, PECO filed a petition before the PAPUC for a $98 million rate increase. On October 23, 2008, the PAPUC approved a settlement of a distribution rate increase that provides for an annual revenue increase of $77 million. The approved distribution rate adjustment became effective on January 1, 2009. PECO AEPS Filing In August 2008, PECO entered into a five year agreement with an accepted bidder to purchase AECs from the March 2008 RFP. PECO launched its second RFP in November 2008 and anticipates entering into fixed price, five year agreements by March 2009, with purchases beginning no later than December 31, 2009. PECO Default Service Filing On November 14, 2008, PECO amended its comprehensive Default Service Program and Rate Mitigation Plan with the PAPUC relating to its plan to provide default electric service following the expiration of rate caps on December 31, 2010. The purpose of the amendment was to address the requirements of Act 129 of 2008 (Act 129), which was signed into law in October 2008. PECO has withdrawn its Energy Efficiency Package and will revise its energy efficiency programs consistent with the new requirements of Act 129. The PAPUC will conduct a formal proceeding to give all interested parties the opportunity to examine aspects of the amended filing and make independent recommendations. The process is expected to be completed by July 2009. Outlook for 2009 and Beyond. Several significant events may occur during the rest of 2009 and beyond, including the following: Proposal for acquisition of NRG On October 19, 2008, with authorization from Exelons Board of Directors, Exelon submitted a proposal to NRG to enter into a business combination with NRG under which Exelon would exchange 0.485 of a share of Exelon common stock for each share of NRG common stock. On November 12, 2008, Exelon announced an exchange offer in which Exelon, through its wholly owned subsidiary Exelon Xchange, offered to acquire all of the outstanding NRG common stock in exchange for 0.485 of a share of Exelon common stock plus cash in lieu of fractional shares, representing a total equity value of approximately $6.2 billion for NRG based on Exelons closing price on October 17, 2008. On January 7, 2009, Exelon announced that the initial expiration of the offer on January 6, 2009, NRG shareholders had tendered approximately 106 million shares of common stock of NRG, representing just over 45.6% of all outstanding shares of NRG common stock, and Exelon was extending the expiration date of the exchange offer until 5:00 PM New York City Time on February 25, 2009 unless further extended. Exelon is taking steps to obtain the regulatory approvals required for the proposed acquisition of NRG. NRG rejected Exelons initial offer and remains opposed to Exelons exchange offer. See PART I ITEM 1. Business for further information. As part of its FERC filing related to the NRG offer to address potential market power concerns, Exelon proposed to divest its three facilities in Texas Mountain Creek, Handley and LaPorte totaling approximately 2,400 MW of capacity. The plans also include transferring to a third party Exelons power purchase agreements in Texas totaling approximately 1,200 MW of capacity. In addition, the combined company would divest approximately 1,000 MW of capacity in the PJM East market, including plants currently owned by NRG. Exelon does not believe there are any other generation overlap issues related to the proposed combination. In connection with the decline in current market conditions and the potential divestiture of the Texas plants proposed in its December 2008 FERC filing, Generation evaluated its Texas plants for potential impairment as of December 31, 2008 pursuant to SFAS No. 144. The impairment evaluation was performed to assess whether the carrying values of the plants were 83 not recoverable. Although energy market conditions have deteriorated since mid 2008, in part reflecting lower commodity prices, which could have an adverse impact on the potential sales price of these plants; Generations evaluation indicated that the estimated undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying values of the plants and an impairment did not exist as of December 31, 2008 under the held and used model of SFAS No. 144. As Exelon continues its efforts to acquire NRG, Generation will continue to evaluate its Texas plants for impairment, taking into account current energy market conditions, the likelihood and timing of the divestiture of these plants and the potential sales proceeds that might be obtained. Should current market conditions further decline or the likelihood of divestiture increase, an impairment may be triggered and any potential impairment of its Texas plants could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations in the period in which the impairment is recorded. Pennsylvania Transition Legislation PECO is subject to caps on its electric generation rates through December 31, 2010 in connection with its PPA with Generation. In Pennsylvania, despite the decrease during 2008 in wholesale electricity market prices, legislators and regulators have still expressed concern regarding the rate increases expected in the transition to market based retail electric generation rates. Although recently enacted Act 129 provides guidelines associated with electricity procurement that support competitive, market based procurement, elected officials have suggested rate cap extensions, rate increase deferrals and phase ins, a generation tax and contributions of value (potentially billions of dollars statewide) by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs that could have a significant impact on PECO and Generation. Act 129 requires that Pennsylvania electric utility companies meet energy conservation and demand reduction targets, beginning in 2011, to enhance the Commonwealths energy independence and enable programs to help consumers manage their energy use. In 2009, PECO will file plans with the PAPUC to meet these energy efficiency and demand response goals. Also, PECO will be required to transition its electric customers to smart meter technology over a fifteen year period and to make available time of use rates and real time price plans. The legislation allows recovery of costs for each of these programs, subject to approval by the PAPUC. Presidential Administration Due to the new Democratic Administration and increased Democratic majorities in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate, there is a stronger likelihood that legislation related to energy, environmental and tax policy will be enacted in the foreseeable future. These changes may include, but are not limited to, legislation or regulation limiting GHG emissions; changing corporate tax law; a higher tax on dividend income; the Federal imposition of a renewable energy portfolio standard; and incentives for investments in transmission, smart grid deployment, energy efficiency and renewable generation. Exelon continuously evaluates the potential impact of proposed public policy changes which may impact the Registrants either favorably or unfavorably. New Growth Opportunities Generation pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize shareholder value, taking earnings, cash flow and financial risk into account. On September 2, 2008, Generation submitted a combined COL application to the NRC seeking authorization to build and operate a new dual unit nuclear generating facility in 84 Victoria County in southeast Texas. In addition, Generation filed Part I and Part II of a loan guarantee application with the Department of Energy (DOE) for these potential new units on September 26, 2008 and December 18, 2008, respectively. The COL application preserves for Exelon and Generation the option to develop a new nuclear plant in Texas without immediately committing to the full project. In order to continue preserving and assessing this option, Exelon and Generation have approved expenditures on the project of up to $100 million, which includes fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments and other costs for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. Amounts spent on the project to date have been expensed. The development phase of the project is expected to extend into 2009, with approval of funding beyond the $100 million commitment subject to management review and board approval. Generation has not made a decision to build a new nuclear plant at this time. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision to build is made by Generation are the successful granting of the COL by the NRC; significant progress to resolve questions around the short term interim and long term permanent storage, as well as potential future recycling, of spent nuclear fuel; broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant; and assurances that a new plant can be financially successful, which would entail economic analysis that would incorporate assessing construction and financing costs, including the availability of sufficient financing, production and other potential tax credits, and other key economic factors. However, the decision to build the new nuclear plant depends, in large part, upon financial support under the DOE loan guarantee program. At this time, there is considerable uncertainty about the likelihood of DOE financial support for the project due to the limited appropriations available to DOE for this purpose and the number of projects competing for those limited resources. On May 1, 2008, Generation announced that it is actively pursuing the development of a 600 megawatt combined cycle natural gas power plant in Pennsylvania. The new plant would advance Exelons efforts to combat carbon emissions associated with electricity generation. Generation has been looking at several existing plant sites that it owns with access to the transmission lines, water and fuel needed to operate a new power plant. Generation has stated that a final decision on whether to move forward would be made only after it had more certainty around environmental permitting and had performed a more detailed economic review. Generation will continue to study the development of the project but will not make material investments or pursue permits until general market conditions have improved the estimated economic returns of the project. Amounts spent on the project to date, which are not material, have been expensed. Illinois Settlement Legislation The legislation reflecting the agreement that ComEd, Generation and other generators and utilities in Illinois reached with various representatives from the State of Illinois (Illinois Settlement Legislation) is expected to provide ComEd with greater stability and certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to its customers with less risk that rate freeze or other harmful legislation will be pursued in the near term. As stipulated in the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA, under the oversight of the ICC, is responsible for all procurement plans for annual delivery periods starting in June 2009 and thereafter. ComEd has stabilized a portion of its costs of procurement pursuant to the five year financial swap contract with Generation. ComEd will be allowed to fully recover the costs of procuring energy, including the impacts of the financial swap contract, in its rates as it was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation. In the event that legislation is enacted in the Illinois General Assembly prior to August 1, 2011 that freezes or reduces electric rates or imposes a generation tax, the Illinois Settlement Legislation permits ComEd and Generation, as contributors to certain rate relief programs, to terminate their funding commitments to such programs. 85 Cost Savings Exelon anticipates that it will be subject to the ongoing pressures of rising operating expenses due to increases in costs, such as medical benefits and rising payroll costs due to inflation. Also, Exelon will continue to incur significant capital costs associated with its commitment to produce and deliver energy reliably to its customers. Increasing capital costs may include the price of uranium, which fuels the nuclear facilities, and continued capital investment in Exelons aging distribution infrastructure and generating facilities. Exelon is determined to operate its businesses responsibly and to appropriately manage its operating and capital costs while serving its customers and producing value for its shareholders. In 2009, Exelon will realize cost savings through sustainable productivity improvements. This effort will include the evaluation of Exelons governance model to ensure its corporate cost structure is optimal in supporting the operating companies. In addition, Exelon will implement more rigorous planning and performance measurement tools that allow it to better identify areas for productivity improvement across the operating companies and to measure progress against plan. Competitive Markets In general, market prices for energy have increased over the past number of years due to the rise in natural gas and other fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates generally have been below wholesale energy market prices in PJM, and Generations margins on sales in excess of PECOs requirements generally have been higher during this time. Given its significance to Generation, the expiration at the end of 2010 of the current PPA with PECO could result in significant changes in margins earned by Generation beginning in 2011. Any increase or decrease in margin as a result of entering into new power supply contracts backed by the generation capacity previously committed to PECO will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, energy demand and the outcome of Pennsylvania transition legislation. See Pennsylvania Transition Legislation above for more information. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2009 and 2010. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has estimated greater than 95% and 90% for economic and cash flow hedge ratios for 2009 and 2010, respectively, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This financial hedge ratio is the estimate of the gross margin that is hedged given the current assessment of market volatility. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates and through long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Generation procures coal primarily through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 60% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2009 through 2013 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these 86 or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Environmental Matters On July 15, 2008, Exelon announced a new longer term comprehensive environmental plan, Exelon 2020. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for results of Exelons GHG emissions reduction plan and detail on the Exelon 2020 plan. The Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) was promulgated by the EPA in 2005 to reduce power plant emissions of SO2 and NOx. On December 23, 2008, in response to a petition for re hearing of its July 11, 2008 decision to vacate CAIR, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit determined not to vacate the existing CAIR pending issuance of a revised CAIR by the EPA. The Courts decision to allow CAIR to remain in effect will assist eastern states in continuing to improve regional air quality in support of meeting Federal air quality attainment dates. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail on the impact of the vacature of CAIR to Generation. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit invalidated compliance measures of the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. These measures were supported by the utility industry because they were cost effective and provided existing plants with needed flexibility in selecting the compliance option appropriate to its location and operations. Several industry parties sought review by the Supreme Court and a decision is expected in the first half of 2009. On July 9, 2007, the EPA formally suspended the Phase II rule due to the uncertainty about the specific compliance requirements created by the courts remand of significant provisions of the rule. Until the EPA finalizes the rule on remand (which could take several years), the state permitting agencies will continue the current practice of applying their best professional judgment to address impingement and entrainment requirements at plant cooling water intake structures. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail on the impact of this rule to Generation. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs in limiting further the GHG emissions from its operations or in procuring emission allowance credits. However, Exelon may benefit from stricter emission standards due to its significant nuclear and other low carbon capacity, which is not anticipated to be adversely affected by proposed GHG emission standards such as the Clean Air Act. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in the case of Massachusetts v. U. S. EPA holding that carbon dioxide (CO2) and other GHG emissions are pollutants subject to regulation under the new motor vehicle provisions of the Clean Air Act. The case was remanded to the EPA for further rulemaking, and the possible outcomes from this decision could include regulation of GHG emissions from manufacturing plants, including electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities. See PART I Item 1. Business for further discussion. 87 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies on a unit by unit basis to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, low level radioactive waste disposal and other costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternatives and timing scenarios on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% (high cost scenario) or minus 15% (low cost scenario) over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a low level radioactive waste landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a 20 year delay) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for disposal, which Generation currently estimates to begin in 2020. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting spent nuclear fuel, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 88 Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2008 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 273 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 97 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 133 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 220 If the estimated date for DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel were to be extended to 2025, Generations aggregate nuclear decommissioning obligation would be reduced by an immaterial amount. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or estimated amount of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments (Exelon and Generation) The trust fund investments have been established to satisfy Exelons and Generations nuclear decommissioning obligations. The nuclear decommissioning trust funds hold debt and equity securities directly and indirectly through commingled funds. Generations investment policies place limitations on the types and investment grade ratings of the securities that may be held by the trusts. These policies restrict the trust funds from holding alternative investments and limit the trust funds exposures to investments in highly illiquid markets. On January 1, 2008, Generation elected the fair value option under SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159) with respect to these investments; therefore, the investments are carried at fair value with all changes in fair value being recognized through the statement of operations. With respect to individually held equity securities, the trustees obtain prices from pricing services, whose prices are obtained from direct feeds from market exchanges, which Generation is able to independently corroborate. For fixed income securities, the trustees receive multiple prices from pricing services, which enable cross provider validations by the trustees in addition to checks for unusual daily movements. A primary price source is identified based on asset type, class or issue for each security. The trustees monitor prices supplied by pricing services and may use a supplemental price source or change the primary price source of a given security if the trustees challenge an assigned price and determine that another price source is considered to be preferable. Generation has obtained an understanding of how these prices are derived, including the nature and observability of the inputs 89 used in deriving such prices. Additionally, Generation selectively corroborates the fair values of securities by comparison to other market based price sources. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), Generation categorizes these investments under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Investments with maturities of the three months or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents and included in the recurring fair value measurements hierarchy as Level 1 or Level 2. The fair values of equity securities held directly by the trust funds are based on quoted prices in active markets and are categorized in Level 1. Equity securities held individually are primarily traded on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ Global Select Market, which contain all actively traded securities due to the volume trading requirements imposed by these exchanges. In addition, U.S. Treasury securities are categorized as Level 1 because they trade in a highly liquid and transparent market. The fair values of fixed income securities, excluding U.S. Treasury securities, are based on evaluated prices that reflect observable market information, such as actual trade information of similar securities, adjusted for observable differences and are categorized in Level 2. To draw parallels from the trading and quoting of fixed income securities with similar features, pricing services consider various characteristics including the issuer, vintage, purpose of loan, collateral attributes, prepayment speeds, interest rates and credit ratings in order to properly value these securities. Commingled funds, which are analogous to mutual funds, are maintained by investment companies and hold certain investments in accordance with a stated set of fund objectives. Short term commingled funds held within the trust funds, which generally hold short term fixed income securities, are categorized as Level 2 as the fair values of these funds are derived from observable prices, and these funds are not subject to restrictions regarding the purchase or sale of shares. The objectives of the remaining commingled funds in which Exelon and Generation invest primarily seek to track the performance of specific equity indices, specifically the Standard & Poors (S&P) 500, the Russell 3000 and the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE indices, by purchasing equity securities to replicate the capitalization and characteristics of the indices. The fair value of these commingled funds primarily are based on net asset values per fund share (the unit of account), derived from the quoted prices in active markets of the underlying equity securities. However, because the shares of these commingled funds are not publicly quoted, not traded in an active market and are subject to certain restrictions regarding their purchase and sale, the commingled funds are categorized in Level 3. See Notes 8 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill which relates to the acquisition of ComEd under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. In general, fair value increases to assets and or fair value decreases to liabilities would increase the size of any impairment. For example, a decrease in the fair value of ComEds debt would increase the size of any impairment and vice versa. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets, liabilities and 90 goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of the reporting unit. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In the assessment, Exelon and ComEd estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, expected cash flow model with scenarios reflecting potential outcomes of future regulatory filings and managements associated plans, and a resulting range of operating results and cash flows. The model includes an estimate of ComEds terminal value based on these expected cash flows and on an earnings multiple approach, which reflects the estimated value of comparable utility companies. Other significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit include ComEds capital structure, interest rates, utility sector market performance, operating and capital expenditure requirements, fair value of debt and other factors. This approach, including the comparable utility companies used to determine the earnings multiple, has been consistently applied since the adoption of SFAS No. 142. In addition, ComEd performs alternative market based analyses to corroborate the estimated fair value, including a reconciliation of the sum of the fair value of all Exelon reporting units to its enterprise value based on its trading price. The regulatory environment, such as the September 2008 Rate Order, has provided more certainty related to ComEds future cash flows. However, the recent economic downturn and the capital and credit market crisis have significantly impacted the market related assumptions, resulting in a significant decrease in the estimated fair value of ComEd since the November 1, 2007 assessment. For example, the earnings multiple used to determine the terminal value decreased from 8.6x at November 1, 2007 to 7.5x at November 1, 2008. While ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2008, further deterioration of the market related factors used in the impairment review could result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset over its fair value. An impairment would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation, including an evaluation made in connection with Exelons proposed acquisition of NRG. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service 91 lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel and hydroelectric generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. The completion of the depreciation study is expected to result in an increase to ComEds annual depreciation expense of approximately $15 million during 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. The impact of the new rates was not material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees. Employees of Generations former wholly owned subsidiary, AmerGen, participate in a separate AmerGen sponsored defined benefit pension and other postretirement welfare benefit plans. Effective January 8, 2009, the AmerGen legal entity was merged into Generation. At that time, Exelon became the sponsor of all AmerGen pension and postretirement benefit plans. The change in sponsorship did not materially impact the funding or substantive provisions of the AmerGen plans. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under these plans involve various factors, including numerous assumptions and accounting elections. When determining the various assumptions that are required, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The benefit costs are affected by, among other things, the actual rate of return on plan assets, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment crediting rate, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs and the level of benefits provided to employees and retirees. Pension and postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are included with labor costs and ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. 92 Actual asset return experience has a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens pension and postretirement benefit plans. The overall actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2008 were a loss of approximately 26% compared to an assumed 8.75% positive return. This loss of 26% is expected to increase 2009 and 2010 benefit costs as follows: Increase in 2009Pension Cost Increase in 2009PostretirementBenefit Cost Increase in 2010Pension Cost Increase in 2010PostretirementBenefit Cost 2008 negative asset returns of 26% $ 110 $ 99 $ 176 $ 95 This information assumes that movements in asset returns occur absent changes to other actuarial assumptions, and does not consider any actions management may take to mitigate the impact of the asset return shortfalls, such as changes to the amount and timing of future contributions. The actuarial assumptions used in the determination of pension and postretirement benefit costs are interrelated and changes in other assumptions could have the impact of offsetting all or a portion of the potential increase in benefit costs set forth above. In addition, declines in the value of plan assets during 2008 resulted in an increase to the plans unfunded status and a decrease to shareholders equity upon actuarial revaluation of the plan on December 31, 2008, and reduced benefit plan assets may increase the amount and accelerate the timing of required future funding contributions. The pension and postretirement plan trusts investments include debt and equity securities, held directly and through commingled funds, and alternative asset classes. With respect to individually held equity securities, the trustees obtain prices from pricing services, whose prices are obtained from direct feeds from market exchanges. For fixed income securities, the trustees receive multiple prices from pricing services, which enable cross provider validations by the trustees in addition to checks for unusual daily movements. A primary price source is identified based on asset type, class or issue for each security. The trustees monitor prices supplied by pricing services and may use a supplemental price source or change the primary price source of a given security if the trustees challenge an assigned price and determine that another price source is considered to be preferable. Additionally, Exelon selectively corroborates the fair values of securities by comparison to other market based price sources. Commingled funds are valued based on the net asset value of the underlying assets, which are generally equity and fixed income securities. Alternative investments are valued by investment managers, generally using a model based approach. Exelon has obtained an understanding of how these prices are derived, including the nature and observability of the inputs used in deriving such prices. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 8.75%, 8.75%, and 9.00% for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.80%, 7.85%, and 8.15% in 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The EROA is based on current asset allocations as described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A change in the asset allocation strategy could significantly impact the EROA and related costs. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the market related value (MRV) of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments that are to be made during the year. SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 106, 93 Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (SFAS No. 106) allow the MRV of plan assets to be either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. Exelon uses a calculated value when determining the MRV of the pension plan assets that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. This calculated value has the effect of stabilizing variability in assets to which Exelon applies the expected return. Exelon uses fair value when determining the MRV of the other postretirement benefit plan assets and the AmerGen pension plan assets. The discount rate for determining the pension benefit obligations was 6.09%, 6.20%, and 5.90% at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The discount rate for determining the other postretirement benefit obligations was 6.09%, 6.20%, and 5.85% at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end will be used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use a discount rate and EROA of 6.09% and 8.50%, respectively, for estimating its 2009 pension costs. Additionally, Exelon will use a discount rate and expected return on plan assets of 6.09% and 8.10%, respectively, for estimating its 2009 other postretirement benefit costs. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onPension Liability atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on2008Pension Cost Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on 2008PostretirementBenefit Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 641 $ 52 $ 212 $ 26 Decrease rate of EROA by 0.5% 48 8 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens postretirement benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2008 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2008 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on2008Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase assumed health care cost trend by 1% $ 431 $ 49 Decrease assumed health care cost trend by 1% (358 ) (40 ) 94 Extending the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2008 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2008 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefit Obligation atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on2008Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years $ 145 $ 19 The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. As allowed by SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106, the impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs, and certain of its actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs over participants average remaining service period related to eligibility age, and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of defined pension plan participants was 12.8 years, 13.0 years and 13.5 years for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 6.9 years, 6.9 years, and 7.3 years for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.4 years, 9.7 years and 10.3 years for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for future recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues collected from customers in excess of prescribed recovery that must be refunded to customers through an adjustment of billing rates. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of SFAS No. 71, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of those operations, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 would be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. If ComEd no longer met the criteria of SFAS No. 71, the impact on ComEds capital structure could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain which would be recorded in the event ComEd reversed its net regulatory liability 95 position. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 3, 7 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments and recent rate orders, including for other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS No. 5), as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that will ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of the appropriate regulatory process. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies, known circumstances specific to a particular matter, discussions held with the applicable regulatory body, and other factors. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual events, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a five year financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. In addition, Generation and PECO have entered into a long term full requirements power purchase agreement under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities, as Amended (SFAS No. 133) and related interpretations. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under SFAS No. 133 requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133 continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium do not meet the definition of a derivative under SFAS No. 133 since they do not provide for net settlement and the uranium markets are not sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium markets do become 96 sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the cost or value of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases or normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Normal purchases and sales are contracts where physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time, and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases or normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of the initial ComEd procurement auction and the subsequent RFP process, and all of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives, qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase or normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in counterparty credit and book outs (financial settlements). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a 97 regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives are valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges and, are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. Generation reviews and corroborates the price quotations to ensure the prices are observable which includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. Generations non exchange based derivatives are predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, including assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, Generation considers the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the model inputs generally are not observable. Generation considers credit and nonperformance risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of credit and nonperformance risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk were not material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. Exelon may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Exelon uses a calculation of future cash inflows and estimated future outflows related to the swap agreements, which are discounted and netted to determine the current fair value. Additional inputs to the present value calculation include the contract terms, as well as market parameters such as interest rates and volatility. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. 98 Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Beginning January 1, 2007, the Registrants began accounting for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Prior to January 1, 2007, the Registrants estimated their uncertain income tax obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS No. 109), SFAS No. 5, and Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements a replacement of FASB Concepts Statement No. 3 (incorporating an amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2) (CON 6). The Registrants recognize accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense or interest income in other income and deductions on their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Registrants also have non income tax obligations related to real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters that are outside the scope of FIN 48 and accounted for under SFAS No. 5 and CON 6. Accounting for tax positions requires judgments, including estimating reserves for potential uncertainties. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with FIN 48, SFAS No. 5, SFAS No. 109 and CON 6 as applicable, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimable based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their financial statements. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but 99 not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of probable losses on the accounts receivable balances. The allowance is based on known troubled accounts, historical experience and other currently available evidence. For ComEd and PECO, customer accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. Customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory guidelines. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories and are prohibited from terminating electric service to certain residential customers due to nonpayment during certain months of the year. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would need to make adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts for the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. 100 Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Results of Operations Exelon 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)2007 vs. 2006variance Operating revenues $ 18,859 $ 18,916 $ (57 ) $ 15,655 $ 3,261 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 6,582 7,642 1,060 5,232 (2,410 ) Operating and maintenance 4,566 4,289 (277 ) 3,868 (421 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 1,634 1,520 (114 ) 1,487 (33 ) Taxes other than income 778 797 19 771 (26 ) Total operating expenses 13,560 14,248 688 12,134 (2,114 ) Operating income 5,299 4,668 631 3,521 1,147 Other income and deductions Interest expense (699 ) (647 ) (52 ) (616 ) (31 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (133 ) (203 ) 70 (264 ) 61 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (26 ) (106 ) 80 (111 ) 5 Other, net (407 ) 460 (867 ) 266 194 Total other income and deductions (1,265 ) (496 ) (769 ) (725 ) 229 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 4,034 4,172 (138 ) 2,796 1,376 Income taxes 1,317 1,446 129 1,206 (240 ) Income from continuing operations 2,717 2,726 (9 ) 1,590 1,136 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 10 10 2 8 Net income $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.13 $ 4.05 $ 0.08 $ 2.35 $ 1.70 Net Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Exelons net income for 2008 was consistent compared to 2007. Increases were primarily due to higher average realized margins at Generation, reflecting higher realized prices on market sales; increased revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio; net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities; the impact of the Illinois Settlement reached in 2007; increased transmission and delivery service revenue at ComEd in 2008 resulting from the 2007 transmission and distribution rate cases; the impact of a 2007 loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska; the impact of a decreased charitable contribution to the Exelon Foundation; and gains related to the settlement of claims related to uranium supply agreements. These increases were offset by unrealized and realized losses associated with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to its Unregulated Units; increased nuclear fuel costs; decreased nuclear output at Generation reflecting increased scheduled refueling outage days in 2008; increased operating and maintenance expense related to the higher number of planned nuclear refueling outages; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense at PECO and ComEd as well as the establishment of a reserve related to Generations accounts receivable from Lehman; labor related 101 inflation; increased scheduled CTC amortization expense at PECO; impact of a gain realized in 2007 on nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments related to the Unregulated Units primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy; realized nuclear decommissioning trust fund losses related to a tax planning strategy; the impact of the favorable 2007 PJM Interconnection, LLC billing settlement with PPL Electric; the impact of the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in 2007; and income associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities in 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Exelons net income for 2007 increased due to the impact of a $776 million impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher average margins on Generations wholesale market sales primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006; increased nuclear output at Generation reflecting fewer outage days; increased transmission revenues at ComEd; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased delivery volume, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; decreased nuclear refueling outage costs; the impact of incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; gains realized on decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy; favorable income tax benefit associated with Exelons method of capitalizing overhead costs; increased earnings associated with synthetic fuel producing facilities; the reduction in the reserve related to the successful PURTA tax settlement at PECO; and the impact of a charge in 2006 associated with the termination of the proposed merger with PSEG. These increases were partially offset by decreased energy margins at ComEd due to the end of the regulatory transition period; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; the impact of the Illinois Settlement; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the Unregulated Units; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; increased amortization expense related to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO; costs associated with the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas; benefits in 2006 of approximately $288 million to recover certain costs by the ICC rate orders; and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Operating Revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Operating revenues decreased due to lower nuclear output due to more planned refueling outage days in 2008; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; the impact of the Illinois Settlement; the reduction in PECOs distribution rates made to refund the PURTA tax settlement to customers (completely offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability reflected in taxes other than income); and the impact of the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by higher realized prices on market sales at Generation; increased transmission and delivery service revenue at ComEd resulting from the 2007 transmission and distribution rate cases; increased delivery volumes, excluding the effects of weather, at PECO; and increased revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio. See additional analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Operating revenues increased due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation resulting from higher volumes of generation sold to the market at higher prices as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; the impact of rate changes and mix at ComEd due to the end of the rate freeze and the 102 implementation of market based rates for electricity; increased transmission revenues at ComEd resulting from the 2007 transmission rate case; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; higher delivery volumes, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; and authorized electric generation rate increases under the 1998 restructuring agreement at PECO. These increases were partially offset by more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; costs associated with ComEds settlement agreement with the City of Chicago; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. See additional analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities; favorable settlements reached in 2008 related to uranium supply agreements; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; and the impact of a 2007 loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to a contract with Tenaska. These decreases were partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs at Generation; increased transmission expense at PECO; and the impact of the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in 2007. See additional analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Purchased power and fuel expense increased due to higher market energy prices; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to a contract with Tenaska; higher prices for electricity purchased by ComEd; and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply for 2007 and 2006. The increases in purchased power and fuel expense were partially offset by a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007; more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under its supplier forward contracts from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See additional analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense at PECO and ComEd as well as the establishment of a reserve related to Generations accounts receivable from Lehman; discrete disallowances, net of allowed regulatory assets, mandated by the September 2008 ICC order in ComEds 2007 delivery service rate case; labor related inflation; increased expenses related to a higher number of planned nuclear refueling outages, including planned nuclear refueling outage costs at Salem; and decreased nuclear insurance credits accrued by Generation in 2008. These increases are partially offset by a decrease in costs associated with the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas; decreased charitable contributions to the Exelon Foundation; and decreased stock based compensation costs. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the Unregulated Units; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm 103 damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; new nuclear site development costs for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas; increased tax consulting fees; and the impact of benefits of $201 million recorded at ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate orders. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006; the impact of incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; and the impact of a charge recorded in 2006 of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the now terminated proposed merger with PSEG. See additional discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to increased scheduled CTC amortization expense at PECO and higher plant balances due to additional plant placed in service across Exelon. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service across Exelon. These increases were partially offset by lower amortization related to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Taxes Other Than Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Taxes other than income decreased primarily due to an Illinois distribution tax refund received in 2008 and the amortization of the regulatory liability recorded in connection with the 2007 PURTA settlement, which began in January 2008 and is offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in the distribution rates to refund the PURTA taxes to customers. These factors are partially offset by the impact of increased property taxes and payroll taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to an increase in utility taxes resulting from higher utility revenues at PECO and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of a reserve related to the successful PURTA tax settlement at PECO. Other Income and Deductions. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The change in other income and deductions primarily reflects unrealized and realized losses on Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments of its Unregulated Units; the impact of 2007 gain from sale of Generations investment in TEG and TEP; and the income associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities that ceased operations at the end of 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The change in other income and deductions reflects interest income related to the favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; a gain related to the sale of investments by Generation; income and gains associated with the nuclear decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy; benefits of $87 million recorded by ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate order; and earnings associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. 104 Effective Income Tax Rate. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The effective income tax rate was 32.6% for 2008 compared to 34.7% for 2007. The 2008 rate decreased, as compared with 2007, primarily due to the impact of higher marginal tax rates applicable to realized and unrealized losses in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds recorded at Generation, partially offset by the expiration of synthetic fuel tax credits under Internal Revenue Code Section 45K on December 31, 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The effective income tax rate was 34.7% for 2007 compared to 43.1% for 2006. The 2007 rate decreased, as compared with 2006, primarily due to ComEds non deductible goodwill impairment charge in 2006 which increased the rate by 9.7% and a decrease of state tax expense in 2007 of 1.5% due to a tax restructuring to allow utilization of separate company losses for state income tax purposes, partially offset by a reduction in synthetic fuel credits of 1.7% in 2007 caused by an increase in the phase out due to higher oil prices, and other changes amounting to 1.1%. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information of the components of the effective income tax rates and discussion on the investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Discontinued Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Income from discontinued operations related to expiration of tax indemnifications in connection to a prior investment in Sithe Energies, Inc. (Sithe). Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe Energies, Inc (Sithe). In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Exelon Enterprises Company, LLC (Enterprises). Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2008, 2007, and 2006 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)2007 vs. 2006variance Generation $ 2,258 $ 2,025 $ 233 $ 1,403 $ 622 ComEd 201 165 36 (112 ) 277 PECO 325 507 (182 ) 441 66 Other (a) (67 ) 29 (96 ) (142 ) 171 Total $ 2,717 $ 2,726 $ (9 ) $ 1,590 $ 1,136 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 105 Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs.2007variance 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)2007 vs.2006variance Generation $ 2,278 $ 2,029 $ 249 $ 1,407 $ 622 ComEd 201 165 36 (112 ) 277 PECO 325 507 (182 ) 441 66 Other (a) (67 ) 35 (102 ) (144 ) 179 Total $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2008 2007 Favorable(Unfavorable)Variance2008 vs. 2007 2006 Favorable(Unfavorable)Variance2007 vs. 2006 Operating revenues $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 5 $ 9,143 $ 1,606 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 3,572 4,451 879 3,978 (473 ) Operating and maintenance 2,717 2,454 (263 ) 2,305 (149 ) Depreciation and amortization 274 267 (7 ) 279 12 Taxes other than income 197 185 (12 ) 185 Total operating expenses 6,760 7,357 597 6,747 (610 ) Operating income 3,994 3,392 602 2,396 996 Other income and deductions Interest expense (136 ) (161 ) 25 (159 ) (2 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of investments (1 ) 1 (2 ) (9 ) 10 Other, net (469 ) 155 (624 ) 41 114 Total other income and deductions (606 ) (5 ) (601 ) (127 ) 122 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,388 3,387 1 2,269 1,118 Income taxes 1,130 1,362 232 866 (496 ) Income from continuing operations 2,258 2,025 233 1,403 622 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 4 16 4 Net income $ 2,278 $ 2,029 $ 249 $ 1,407 $ 622 Net Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generations net income increased primarily due to higher operating revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses and unrealized and realized losses in 2008 and realized gains in 2007 related to nuclear decommissioning trust funds associated with the Unregulated Units. Higher net operating revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense, 106 reflected higher average realized margins, higher net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities, lower costs incurred in conjunction with the Illinois Settlement, a 2007 loss associated with the tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska, increased revenue from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio and gains related to the settlement of uranium supply agreements in 2008, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs, lower nuclear output reflecting a higher number of scheduled refueling and non refueling outage days, the gain on the termination of the State Line PPA in 2007, a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007 and impairments of stored oil and gas inventory in 2008. Higher operating and maintenance expenses included increased wages, salaries and benefits (excluding stock based compensation), nuclear refueling outage costs associated with a higher number of planned refueling outages, higher costs associated with nuclear decommissioning related activities and the establishment of a reserve related to counterparty exposure to Lehman, partially offset by decreases in contractor expenses, stock based compensation and costs associated with the possible construction of a nuclear power plant in Texas. Additional offsets to increased net income in 2008 included decommissioning trust fund activity associated with the Unregulated Units which reflected unrealized losses in 2008, realized losses related to a tax planning strategy in 2008 and the impact of realized gains in 2007 associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Generations net income increased primarily due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, more than offsetting inflationary and other cost pressures, a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in the nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the Unregulated Units and costs associated with the new nuclear plant COL application. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased due to higher average margins primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006, the contractual increase in the prices associated with Generations PPA with PECO, the termination of the State Line PPA and a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007, partially offset by amounts incurred in conjunction with the Illinois Settlement, net mark to market losses on derivative activities and the execution of the Georgia Power PPA. In addition to these impacts, Generations net income for 2007 included (all after tax) gains of $38 million related to the Unregulated Units associated with changes in Generations investment strategy with the decommissioning trust fund investments, a gain on the sale of investments of $11 million and earnings of $4 million associated with the settlement of a tax matter related to Generations previous investment in Sithe. Operating Revenues. For 2008, 2007 and 2006 Generations revenues were as follows: Revenue 2008 2007 2008 vs. 2007 2006 2007 vs. 2006 Variance %Change Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,561 $ 3,537 $ 24 0.7 % $ 4,674 $ (1,137 ) (24.3 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales (a) 6,720 6,834 (114 ) (1.7 )% 3,640 3,194 87.7 % Total electric sales revenue 10,281 10,371 (90 ) (0.9 )% 8,314 2,057 24.7 % Retail gas sales 497 449 48 10.7 % 540 (91 ) (16.9 )% Trading portfolio 106 43 63 146.5 % 14 29 207.1 % Other operating revenue (b) (130 ) (114 ) (16 ) 14.0 % 275 (389 ) (141.4 )% Total operating revenue $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 5 0.0 % $ 9,143 $ 1,606 17.6 % (a) For 2008, $2 million of pre tax reduction in revenue from settlements related to the ComEd swap and $29 million of pre tax revenue from sales to ComEd under the RFP have been excluded from ComEd and included in Marketing and Retail sales. (b) Includes amounts incurred for the Illinois Settlement for 2008 and 2007, and revenues relating to fossil fuel sales and decommissioning revenue from PECO during 2008, 2007 and 2006. 107 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 Sales (in gigawatt hours (GWhs)(a)) 2008 2007 Variance %Change 2006 Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates 64,166 64,406 (240 ) (0.4 )% 119,354 (54,948 ) (46.0 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 112,008 125,244 (13,236 ) (10.6 )% 71,326 53,918 75.6 % Total electric sales 176,174 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% (a) 486 GWh during 2008, resulting from sales to ComEd under the RFP starting in September 2008, have been excluded from ComEd and included in Market and Retail sales. Trading volumes of 8,891 GWhs, 20,323 GWhs and 31,692 GWhs for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. The changes in Generations electric sales to affiliates for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Electrical sales to affiliates Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Variance 2007 vs. 2006 Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) ComEd $ (9 ) $ 9 $ $ 650 $ (2,035 ) $ (1,385 ) PECO 43 (19 ) 24 169 79 248 Total $ 34 $ (10 ) $ 24 $ 819 $ (1,956 ) $ (1,137 ) Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. In the ComEd territories the volume increase was primarily the result of an acquisition by Generation from an unrelated third party of the unrelated third partys supply obligations under the ComEd auction effective January 1, 2008. The price decrease in the ComEd territories was largely due to final reconciliation activity recorded in 2007 associated with the full requirements ComEd PPA which ended on December 31, 2006. In the PECO territories, the price increase reflects a favorable change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPA with Generation, in addition to the effects of the last scheduled rate increase under the PPA, which took effect in mid January 2007. The volume decrease in the PECO territories was primarily due to unfavorable weather conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. In the ComEd territories, decreased volumes were the result of the expiration of Generations PPA with ComEd effective December 31, 2006. The decrease was partially offset by higher prices received by Generation following the expiration of the PPA, under which Generation was receiving below market rates. With the expiration of the PPA, Generation is now receiving higher prices from ComEd under the forward supply contracts. In the PECO territories, higher prices were the result of a scheduled electric generation rate increase that took effect January 1, 2007. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The increase in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) 2008vs.2007 2007vs.2006 Volume $ (720 ) $ 2,782 Price 606 412 Increase (decrease) in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (114 ) $ 3,194 108 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in volumes is reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts in addition to lower volumes of generation sold to the market, including the termination of the Stateline PPA in October 2007. The increase in price was primarily the result of an overall increase in market prices and includes a $29 million increase in revenue related to the ComEd RFP. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily the result of higher volumes of generation sold to the market as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006. Retail gas sales. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Retail gas sales increased $48 million of which $74 million was due to higher realized prices offset by a $26 million decrease due to lower volumes as a result of decreased demand. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Retail gas sales decreased $91 million of which $53 million of the decrease was due to lower volumes as a result of lower demand and $38 million was due to lower realized prices. Trading Portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The trading portfolio increased $63 million which was due primarily to earnings from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Other revenue. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in other revenues was primarily due to the $223 million of income in 2007 associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line), partially offset by $187 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren and $14 million Salem oil spill settlement received in December 2008. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the oil spill settlement. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in other revenues was primarily due to a $408 million decrease for amounts recorded related to the Illinois Settlement, a decrease of $86 million due to the cessation of a tolling agreement and a $66 million decrease related to the termination of decommissioning collections from ComEd in accordance with the terms and conditions of the ICC order which only permitted such collections through December 31, 2006, partially offset by income of $223 million related to the termination of the State Line PPA. Additionally, a $40 million decrease in other revenues was attributable to the sale of Termoel&eacute;ctrica del Golfo (TEG) and Termoel&eacute;ctrica Pe&ntilde;oles (TEP) on February 9, 2007 and the resulting absence of revenue thereafter. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 Supply Source (in GWhs) 2008 2007 Variance %Change 2006 Variance %Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,342 140,359 (1,017 ) (0.7 )% 139,610 749 0.5 % Purchases 26,263 38,021 (11,758 ) (30.9 )% 38,297 (276 ) (0.7 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 10,569 11,270 (701 ) (6.2 )% 12,773 (1,503 ) (11.8 )% Total supply 176,174 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% (a) Supply source in GWhs at ownership. 109 The following table presents changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006. Generation considers the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense as a useful measure to analyze the profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Variance 2007 vs. 2006 Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Purchased power costs and tolling agreement costs (a) $ 767 $ (825 ) $ (58 ) $ 236 $ (47 ) $ 189 Generation costs (b) (89 ) (12 ) (101 ) 2 (5 ) (3 ) Fuel resale costs 99 (25 ) 74 (56 ) (38 ) (94 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. (623 ) n.m. n.m. 275 (Decrease) increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ (708 ) $ 367 (a) Variance for both periods presented excludes the net impact of $119 million loss recorded in 2007 associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Variance for 2008 as compared to 2007 excludes gains of approximately $53 million related to non performance claims for uranium supply agreements recorded in 2008. Variance for 2007 as compared to 2006 excludes the net impact of a $13 million one time settlement with the Department of Energy recorded in 2006 for uranium enrichment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. n.m. Not meaningful. Purchased Power Costs and Tolling Agreement Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to market conditions that resulted in decreased purchases from contracted units as well as decreased volumes due to the termination of the State Line PPA in October 2007. The decrease in volumes is also reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts. Generation realized overall higher prices for purchased power as a result of an overall increase in market prices. Further, Generations purchased power costs increased $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in the first quarter of 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to lower volumes needed to supply ComEd as a result of the expiration of the PPA at December 31, 2006. Generation incurred overall higher prices for purchased power, partially offset by a decrease of $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation cost includes fuel cost for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall lower generation costs for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the same period in 2007 due to decreased realized prices and lower volumes. Additionally, Generation has recorded gains of approximately $53 million related to non performance claims for uranium supply agreements. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 110 Partially offsetting the overall decrease in realized prices and gains associated with uranium supply agreement costs were increased costs for uranium and fossil fuel inventory impairments of $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Generation costs were relatively flat. The decrease in volume of $5 million was primarily due to lower fossil and hydroelectric generation, partially offset by higher nuclear generation. Fuel Resale Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Fuel resale cost includes retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs for 2008 as compared to 2007 consisted of overall higher prices resulting in an increase of $87 million, in addition to a retail gas inventory impairment of $12 million during the year 2008. Additionally, lower volumes caused by lower demand resulted in a decrease of $25 million. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs consisted of overall lower prices resulting in a decrease of $56 million. Additionally, a decrease of $38 million was the result of lower volumes caused by lower demand. Mark to market. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $414 million in 2008 compared to losses of $253 million in 2007. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $38 million in 2008 compared to gains of $81 million in 2007. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives under SFAS No. 157. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Mark to market losses on power derivative activities were $253 million in 2007 compared to gains of $180 million in 2006. Mark to market gains on fuel derivative activities were $81 million in 2007 compared to losses of $77 million in 2006. The following table presents average electric revenues, supply costs and margins per megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity sold during 2008 as compared 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006. As set forth in the table, average electric margins are defined as average electric revenues less average electric supply costs. Generation considers average electric margins useful measures to analyze the change in profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these margins are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. ($/MWh) 2008 2007 2008 vs.2007% Change 2006 2007 vs.2006% Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 55.50 $ 54.90 1.1 % $ 39.16 40.2 % Wholesale and retail electric sales (a) 59.99 54.59 9.9 % 51.03 7.0 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 58.35 54.70 6.7 % 43.60 25.5 % Average electric supply cost(b), (c) excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 19.87 $ 19.54 1.7 % $ 18.56 5.3 % Average margin excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 38.48 $ 35.16 9.4 % $ 25.04 40.4 % 111 (a) For year 2008, $2 million of a pre tax reduction in revenue from settlements related to the ComEd swap and $29M of pre tax increase in revenue from the ComEd RFP have been excluded from Electric sales to affiliates and included in Wholesale and retail electric sales. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales excluding the impact of mark to market hedging activities. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales and other sales for all periods presented. (c) For year 2007, excludes the net impact of the $119 million loss related to the execution of the Georgia Power PPA and costs related to the termination of the State Line PPA during 2007. The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2008, as compared to 2007 and 2006, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one (1) MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2008 2007 2006 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 94.5 % 93.9 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh(a), (b) $ 15.87 $ 14.46 $ 13.85 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. (b) For 2008, excludes the $53 million reduction in fuel expense related to uranium supply agreement non performance settlements. See note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The nuclear fleet capacity factor decreased primarily due to a higher number of scheduled refueling outage days. For 2008 and 2007, refueling outage days totaled 241 and 195, respectively, while non refueling outage days totaled 59 in both years. The lower number of net MWhs generated, the impact of inflation on labor and contracting costs and higher nuclear fuel costs plus the refueling outage costs associated with the higher number of refueling outage days resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2008 as compared 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The nuclear fleet capacity factor increased primarily due to fewer outage days. For 2007 and 2006, refueling outage days totaled 195 and 237, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 59 and 71, respectively. The higher number of net MWhs generated and lower costs due to fewer planned refueling outage days were offset by higher costs for labor, nuclear fuel, NRC reactor fees, security costs and material condition work, resulting in an increase in the production cost per MWh for 2007 as compared to 2006. 112 Operating and Maintenance Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Wages, salaries and benefits $ 112 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant 88 Nuclear decommissioning related activities 57 Accounts receivable reserve 22 Nuclear insurance credits 15 Corporate allocations 13 Non nuclear ARO adjustments 9 Contractor expenses (26 ) Stock based compensation (25 ) New nuclear plant development costs (22 ) Other 20 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 263 The $112 million increase in wages, salaries and benefits reflects the impact of inflation and the costs for the Generation nuclear security personnel hired to replace the external organization that previously provided security services. The $88 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs was primarily associated with the higher number of refueling outage days during 2008 as compared to 2007. The $57 million increase in nuclear decommissioning related activities was associated with the $47 million increase in decommissioning related activities related to the contractual elimination of income taxes associated with the decommissioning trust funds of the former ComEd and PECO nuclear generating units (Regulated Units) and the recognition of income of $19 million related to an ARO adjustment in 2008, compared to income of $29 million related to an ARO adjustment in 2007, representing reductions in the asset retirement obligation in excess of the asset retirement cost balances for the Unregulated Units. The $22 million increase in the accounts receivable reserve is the result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Economic Environment for additional information. The $15 million increase relates to a decrease in nuclear insurance credits accrued in 2008 as compared to 2007. The $13 million increase in corporate support service costs reflected an increase in a variety of BSC services allocated to Generation, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology and supply management services. The $9 million increase relates to non nuclear asset retirement obligation adjustments in 2008 and 2007. The $26 million decrease in contractor costs was primarily related to lower contractor security costs due to Generation no longer using an external organization for security at its nuclear plants (Generation has hired its own personnel to provide security services). The decrease was partially offset by inflationary increases on non outage contracting and services maintenance work at the nuclear plants and staff augmentation and maintenance work at the fossil and hydroelectric plants. The $25 million decrease in stock based compensation was the result of a decrease in Exelons stock price. 113 The $22 million decrease in new nuclear plant development costs reflects a reduction in costs associated with the possible construction of a nuclear power plant in Texas. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Wages, salaries and benefits $ 85 New Nuclear plant development costs 49 Nuclear decommissioning related activities 40 Contractor expenses 24 Corporate allocations 14 TEG and TEP related expenses (39 ) Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (32 ) Other 8 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 149 The $85 million increase in payroll, salaries and benefits reflected the impact of inflation as well as an increase in various direct fringe costs. The $49 million increase in new nuclear site development costs was due to costs incurred for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas, including fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. The $40 million increase in nuclear decommissioning related activities was primarily associated with the recognition of a credit of $29 million, compared to a credit of $149 million recognized in 2006, representing reductions in the asset retirement obligation in excess of the asset retirement cost balance for the Unregulated Units. Additionally, decommissioning related activities decreased by $66 million resulting from the termination of revenue collections on December 31, 2006 from ComEd, which likewise no longer required an offset through operating and maintenance expense, and decreased by $14 million due to the offset of certain income taxes associated with decommission related activity. The $24 million increase in contractor expense was primarily related to staff augmentation and maintenance work at the nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric plants. The $14 million increase in corporate support service costs reflected an increase in a variety of BSC services allocated to Generation, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology and supply management services. The $39 million decrease in expenses related to TEG and TEP was due to the sale of the investment in 2007. The $32 million decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs was associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006. Depreciation and Amortization. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the reassessment of the useful lives of several fossil facilities. The impact of the reassessment of the useful lives did not and will not result in a material change to Generations results of operations as compared to amounts recognized in periods prior to the change. 114 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to the reassessment of the useful lives of several fossil facilities and the write off of certain asset retirement costs in 2006. Taxes Other Than Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase was primarily due to increased payroll taxes and property taxes, partially offset by a gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Interest Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease in interest expense reflected lower interest on spent nuclear fuel obligations as a result of lower rates and an increase in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of the FIN 48 tax interest calculation in 2007, partially offset by increased interest from higher outstanding long term debt balances as a result of the September 2007 bond issuance and higher outstanding commercial paper balances. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, the increase in net interest expense was primarily attributable to an increase in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of the FIN 48 tax interest calculation and an increase in interest expense related to the bond issuance during the third quarter of 2007, partially offset by an interest payment accrued in 2006 for the settlement of a tax matter, a decline in the amount of commercial paper that was outstanding and an increase in average cash on hand balances during 2007 compared to 2006 Other, Net. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses in 2008 on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units due to adverse financial market conditions, the contractual elimination of income taxes associated with the decommissioning trust funds of the Regulated Units, realized losses on the trust funds of the Unregulated Units due to the execution of a tax planning strategy in 2008, and realized gains in 2007 on nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments of the Unregulated Units associated with changes in Generations investment strategy, partially offset by 2007 a gain on sale of TEG and TEP. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, the increase in other, net reflects a gain on sale of investments recognized in 2007 and realized gains associated with nuclear decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units recognized in other, net for 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds Unregulated Units $ (324 ) $ (b) $ (b) Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds Unregulated Units $ (39 ) $ 64 $ (1 ) Other than temporary impairment of decommissioning trust funds Unregulated Units(a) n/a $ (9 ) $ (3 ) 115 (a) As a result of certain NRC restrictions, Exelon and Generation were unable to demonstrate the ability and intent to hold the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments through a recovery period and, accordingly, recognized any unrealized holding losses immediately. After the adoption of the fair value option under SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, other than temporary impairments are no longer recognized since all changes in fair value are recognized in the Statement of Operations beginning January 1, 2008. (b) Unrealized gains (losses) were included in accumulated OCI on Exelons and Generations Consolidated Balance prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008. See Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities in Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the adoption of SFAS No. 159 related to the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments. Effective Income Tax Rate Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations decreased to 33.4% for 2008 from 40.2% in 2007. Generations effective tax rate decreased primarily as a result of recording tax benefits on realized and unrealized losses in its qualified nuclear decommissioning fund investments. The tax benefits on the realized and unrealized losses discussed above were recorded at a higher statutory tax rate than Generations remaining income from operations. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The effective tax rate was 40.2% for 2007 compared to 38.2% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was attributable to an increase in deferred tax expense associated with the generation portion of ComEds research and development settlement as well as ComEds and PECOs application of the indirect cost capitalization method settlement guidelines recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, realized gains recognized in the fourth quarter of 2007 by the qualified nuclear decommissioning trusts also contributed to the increase in the effective tax rate. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Discontinued Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. During 2008, Generation reduced its guarantee liabilities and recognized $38 million of income in discontinued operations related to the expiration of tax indemnifications in connection to a prior investment in Sithe Energies, Inc. (Sithe). Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, Generations Consolidated Statement of Income for 2007 reflects a $4 million (after tax) gain on the disposal of discontinued operations related primarily to Sithe, resulting from a settlement agreement between a subsidiary of Sithe, the Pennsylvania Attorney Generals Office and the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue regarding a previously disputed tax position asserted for the 2000 tax year. Generations Consolidated Statement of Income and Comprehensive Income for 2006 reflected a $4 million (after tax) gain on disposal of discontinued operations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. 116 Results of Operations ComEd 2008 2007 Favorable(Unfavorable)variance2008 vs. 2007 2006 Favorable(Unfavorable)variance2007 vs. 2006 Operating revenues $ 6,136 $ 6,104 $ 32 $ 6,101 $ 3 Purchased power expense 3,582 3,747 165 3,292 (455 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense 2,554 2,357 197 2,809 (452 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,125 1,091 (34 ) 745 (346 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 464 440 (24 ) 430 (10 ) Taxes other than income 298 314 16 303 (11 ) Total other operating expenses 1,887 1,845 (42 ) 2,254 409 Operating income 667 512 155 555 (43 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (348 ) (318 ) (30 ) (308 ) (10 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (8 ) (7 ) (1 ) (10 ) 3 Other, net 18 58 (40 ) 96 (38 ) Total other income and deductions (338 ) (267 ) (71 ) (222 ) (45 ) Income before income taxes 329 245 84 333 (88 ) Income taxes 128 80 (48 ) 445 365 Net income (loss) $ 201 $ 165 $ 36 $ (112 ) $ 277 Net Income. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. As more fully described below, ComEds net income for 2008 compared to 2007 reflected higher revenue net of purchased power expense, primarily driven by higher transmission rates effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008 and higher distribution rates effective September 16, 2008. In 2008, ComEd received a refund of Illinois Distribution Tax that also contributed to the increase in net income. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather; higher operating and maintenance expense, principally driven by disallowances arising from the 2007 Rate Case order and higher storm costs; higher depreciation and amortization expense; and higher interest expense. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. As more fully described below, ComEds net income (loss) for 2007 compared to 2006 reflected the impact of a goodwill impairment charge in 2006 partially offset by higher purchased power expense, higher operating and maintenance expense, and the impacts of the 2006 benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July and December 2006 ICC rate orders. In 2007, ComEd incurred increased costs associated with transitioning from the rate freeze period, including implementing the rate relief programs. Operating Revenues and Purchased Power Expense. ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes revenue net of purchased power is a useful measurement of its performance because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, effective January 2, 2007, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with 117 GAAP. However, the revenue net of purchased power figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower RevenueNet ofPurchasedPower Retail energy and customer choice $ (98 ) $ (108 ) $ 10 Transmission 65 11 54 Volume delivery 2 n/a 2 Weather delivery (38 ) n/a (38 ) Wholesale contracts (58 ) (64 ) 6 Rate relief program 27 n/a 27 Energy efficiency and demand response programs 25 n/a 25 2007 Distribution Rate Case 75 n/a 75 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 5 n/a 5 Other 27 (4 ) 31 Total (decrease) increase $ 32 $ (165 ) $ 197 Retail energy and customer choice Revenue net of purchased power for 2008 compared to 2007 reflects the one day impact of lower retail rates for January 1, 2007 before the expiration of the rate freeze and implementation of the rate increase on January 2, 2007. Revenue. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase electricity from a competitive electric supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied electricity and generation service. Customer choice does not affect ComEds operating income because the cost of the procured power is passed along to customers without mark up. As of December 31, 2008, several competitive electric suppliers had been granted approval to serve retail electricity customers in the ComEd service territory. There are currently a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative suppliers. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, 51% and 48%, respectively, of electricity delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2008 2007 Retail customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric supplier: Number of customers at period end 43,100 44,200 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % 1 % Volume (GWhs) 46,950 45,020 Percentage of total retail deliveries 51 % 48 % Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to the impact of ComEd customers electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. 118 Transmission Revenue. ComEd has a FERC approved formula rate for its transmission rates. ComEd experienced increased revenue in 2008 due to the impact of higher transmission rates effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Purchased Power. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM members became obligated to pay Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustments/Assignment (SECA) collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges, because ComEd is both a transmission owner and a load serving entity within PJM. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. These charges were subject to refund and dispute before FERC. The increase in purchased power expense during 2008 is due to the impact of a reduction of SECA reserves for potential refunds, which were recorded in 2007. Management of ComEd believes that appropriate reserves representing managements best estimate have been established in the event that some portion of the remaining SECA collections that are not settled are required to be refunded. Volume Delivery Revenue. While ComEds delivery volumes, exclusive of the effects of weather increased slightly compared to 2007 on a full year basis, during the fourth quarter of 2008 ComEd experienced a decrease in volumes. ComEd believes the trend from the fourth quarter will continue in 2009, due to the economic downturn. Weather Delivery Revenue. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business in ComEds service territory. Cooling degree days were 25% lower for 2008 compared to 2007, partially offset by an 11% increase in heating degree days. Wholesale Contracts Revenue. ComEds revenues decreased $58 million primarily due to the expiration of certain wholesale contracts in 2007. Purchased Power. ComEds purchased power decreased $64 million primarily due to the expiration of certain wholesale contracts in 2007. Rate relief program Revenue. ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2008 compared to 2007. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues for 2008. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 119 Energy efficiency and demand response programs Revenue. As a result of the 2007 Illinois Settlement, utilities are allowed recovery of costs for energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, ComEd recognized $25 million of revenue associated with these programs. This amount was offset by an equal amount of operating and maintenance expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 2007 Distribution Rate Case Revenue. The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in a $75 million increase in revenues for 2008 compared to 2007. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement Revenue. ComEd paid $18 million and $23 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments are recorded as a reduction in revenues; therefore, the lower payment resulted in a net increase in revenues for 2008. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower RevenueNet ofPurchasedPower Rate changes and mix $ 748 $ 1,346 $ (598 ) Rate relief program (33 ) n/a (33 ) Transmission 115 (17 ) 132 Weather 141 83 58 Delivery Volume 20 n/a 20 Customer Choice (917 ) (917 ) n/a Wholesale contracts (64 ) (50 ) (14 ) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (23 ) n/a (23 ) Other 16 10 6 Total increase (decrease) $ 3 $ 455 $ (452 ) Rate changes and mix Revenue. The increase in revenue related to rate changes and mix primarily reflects the end of the rate freeze and the implementation of market based rates for electricity and the impact of the distribution rate increase effective January 2, 2007. In 2006, most customers were charged a bundled rate that included distribution, transmission services and the cost of electricity. Additionally, under Illinois law, no competitive transition charges (CTCs) are permitted to be collected after 2006. As of January 2007, ComEd began billing customers on an unbundled basis, which includes separate charges for distribution, transmission and electricity. Given the relatively small increase of $83 million approved by the ICC in the annual distribution revenue requirements, the majority of the change in 120 year over year pricing was driven by the inclusion of market based electricity rates. The market based electricity rates were determined through a reverse auction competitive bidding process. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Additionally starting in 2007, ComEd began recovering former manufactured gas plant remediation costs from customers. Purchased Power. Purchased power increased due to higher electricity prices. The PPA with Generation terminated at the end of 2006. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under supplier forward contracts and from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Rate Relief Programs Revenue. As part of its programs for customer rate relief approved and included in the 2007 Illinois Settlement, ComEd funded a portion of the credits issued to customers. These credits are recorded as a reduction of revenues when issued to customers. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Rate Relief Programs. Transmission Revenue. In 2007, ComEd experienced increased revenue from the provision of transmission services resulting from increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Additionally, FERC issued an order in ComEds transmission rate case conditionally approving ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate and associated rate increase effective May 1, 2007, subject to refund. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Transmission Rate Case. Purchased Power. In 2006, ComEd recorded $5 million of net SECA collections. Also during 2006, ComEd adjusted its reserve for possible SECA refunds. In 2007, based on FERC approval of certain settlements, ComEd reduced its reserve for possible SECA refunds to reflect managements best estimate of the remaining amounts that will ultimately be required to be refunded. Management of ComEd believes that appropriate reserves have been established in the event that some portion of the remaining SECA collections that are not settled are required to be refunded. Weather Revenue. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions for 2007 compared to 2006. In ComEds service territory, heating degree days were 8% higher and cooling degree days were 19% higher during 2007 compared to 2006. Purchased Power. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather resulted from higher demand due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Delivery volume Revenue. The increase in revenues for the provision of distribution services primarily resulted from an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers. 121 Customer Choice Revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, 48% and 23%, respectively, of electricity delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 44,200 19,600 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % (a) Volume (GWhs) 45,020 20,787 Percentage of total retail deliveries 48 % 23 % (a) Less than one percent. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Wholesale Contracts Revenue. ComEds revenue decreased $64 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. Purchased Power. ComEds purchased power decreased $50 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement Revenue. ComEd paid $23 million under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago, which was recorded as a reduction of revenue. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Energy efficiency and demand response programs (a) $ 25 2007 Rate Case order (b) 22 Wages and salaries 15 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (c) 12 Storm related costs 8 Corporate allocations 6 Post rate freeze period transition expenses incurred in 2007 (26 ) Contracting (23 ) Injuries and damages (9 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 34 122 (a) These items are offset by an equal increase in revenues. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred operating and maintenance expenses. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (c) The allowance for uncollectible accounts expense increased during 2008 due to increased customer account charge offs and the impact of rate relief credits that reduced this expense during 2007. Management believes the current overall negative economic conditions contributed to the increase in uncollectible accounts expense in 2008 and may negatively impact future uncollectible accounts expense relative to historical levels. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 201 Contracting 31 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (b) 26 Wages and salaries 23 Storm related costs 19 Fringe benefits (c) 14 Corporate allocations 11 Materials and supplies expense 8 Post rate freeze period transition expenses (d) 7 Postage 7 Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 346 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC rehearing order in 2006, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses including severance costs, MGP costs, procurement case and rate case costs. (b) This increase resulted from a change in collectability assumptions in response to changes in the customer payment patterns, changes in customer prices, changes in termination practices and certain changes in business and economic conditions. (c) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits primarily due to increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs. (d) Includes increased costs associated with the Rate Relief programs and other costs associated with transitioning to the post rate freeze period. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. ComEds 2008 annual goodwill impairment assessment, performed in the fourth quarter, resulted in no additional impairment. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The assessment indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2007 annual goodwill impairment assessment, which was performed in the fourth quarter, resulted in no additional impairment. ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2007. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 123 Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 19 $ 15 2007 Rate Case asset disallowances 2 (a) Other amortization expense 3 (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 24 $ 10 (a) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. Taxes Other Than Income. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Taxes other than income decreased for 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of a $14 million refund of 2005 Illinois distribution tax received in 2008. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Taxes other than income increased for 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a $7 million refund of Illinois distribution tax received in 2006. Interest Expense, Net. The changes in interest expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions $ 3 (a) $ (32 )(a) Interest expense on debt 29 (b) 19 (b) Amortization of debt related costs 20 (c) Other (2 ) 3 Increase in interest expense, net $ 30 $ 10 (a) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) The increase resulted from higher debt balances. (c) In 2007, ComEds interest expense, net reflected the initial amortization of the regulatory asset related to the early debt retirement costs authorized by the ICC in 2006. 124 Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 ICC rate order CTC amortization $ $ (87 )(a) Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (36 )(b) 41 (b) Gain on disposal of assets and investments, net 4 Other (4 ) 4 Decrease in other, net $ (40 ) $ (38 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded a benefit associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. (b) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. ComEds effective income tax rate for 2008 was 38.9% compared to 32.7% for 2007. This increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The effective income tax rate was 32.7% for 2007, compared to 133.6% for 2006. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the non deductible impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill accounting. The non deductible goodwill impairment charge decreased income (loss) before income taxes which increased the effective tax rate from continuing operations by 81.6% in 2006. The balance of the reduction was due to a benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization change in 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 2006 % Change2007 vs. 2006 Full service (a) Residential 28,389 29,374 (3.4 )% 28,330 3.7 % Small commercial & industrial 14,937 16,468 (9.3 )% 26,597 (38.1 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,045 1,949 (46.4 )% 12,595 (84.5 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 578 766 (24.5 )% 2,254 (66.0 )% Total full service 44,949 48,557 (7.4 )% 69,776 (30.4 )% Delivery only (b) Residential (c) n.m n.m. Small commercial & industrial 18,550 17,380 6.7 % 5,505 215.7 % Large commercial & industrial 27,764 27,122 2.4 % 15,282 77.5 % Public authorities & electric railroads 636 518 22.8 % 100.0 % Total delivery only 46,950 45,020 4.3 % 20,787 116.6 % Total retail deliveries 91,899 93,577 (1.8 )% 90,563 3.3 % 125 (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. (c) As of December 31, 2008, there are a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative suppliers with total activity of less than 1 GWh and $1 million. n.m. Not meaningful. Electric Revenue 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 2006 % Change2007 vs. 2006 Full service (a) Residential $ 3,284 $ 3,161 3.9 % $ 2,453 28.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,542 1,619 (4.8 )% 2,060 (21.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 90 154 (41.6 )% 700 (78.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 52 67 (22.4 )% 137 (51.1 )% Total full service 4,968 5,001 (0.7 )% 5,350 (6.5 )% Delivery only (b) Residential (c) n.m n.m. Small commercial & industrial 289 261 10.7 % 85 207.1 % Large commercial & industrial 295 276 6.9 % 155 78.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 7 5 40.0 % n.m. Total delivery only 591 542 9.0 % 240 125.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,559 5,543 0.3 % 5,590 (0.8 )% Other revenue (d) 577 561 2.9 % 511 9.8 % Total electric and other revenue $ 6,136 $ 6,104 0.5 % $ 6,101 n.m. (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd, which include the cost of electricity and the cost of transmission and distribution of the electricity. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. (c) As of December 31, 2008, there are a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative suppliers with total activity of less than 1 GWh and $1 million. (d) Other revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. n.m. Not meaningful. 126 Results of Operations PECO 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)Variance2008 vs. 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)Variance2007 vs. 2006 Operating revenues $ 5,567 $ 5,613 $ (46 ) $ 5,168 $ 445 Purchased power expense and fuel expense 3,018 2,983 (35 ) 2,702 (281 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,549 2,630 (81 ) 2,466 164 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 731 630 (101 ) 628 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 854 773 (81 ) 710 (63 ) Taxes other than income 265 280 15 262 (18 ) Total other operating expenses 1,850 1,683 (167 ) 1,600 (83 ) Operating income 699 947 (248 ) 866 81 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (226 ) (248 ) 22 (266 ) 18 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) (7 ) (9 ) (9 ) 2 Other, net 18 45 (27 ) 30 15 Total other income and deductions (224 ) (210 ) (14 ) (245 ) 35 Income before income taxes 475 737 (262 ) 621 116 Income taxes 150 230 80 180 (50 ) Net income 325 507 (182 ) 441 66 Preferred stock dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 321 $ 503 $ (182 ) $ 437 $ 66 Net Income. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. PECOs net income for 2008 compared to 2007 decreased due to lower operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense, reflecting unfavorable weather conditions, as well as higher operating and maintenance expenses primarily driven by an increase in the allowance for uncollectible accounts expense and increased scheduled CTC amortization, which was in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act, partially offset by the decrease in interest expense due to lower long term debt balances owed to PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT). Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. PECOs net income for 2007 compared to 2006 increased primarily due to higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense, which reflected increased sales from favorable weather conditions, increased usage across all customer classes for both electric and gas, the completion of certain authorized rate increases that began in 2006 and the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute, as well as the recognition of income resulting from a reduction in the reserve after the successful PURTA tax appeal, partially offset by higher scheduled CTC amortization, which was in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. Operating Revenues, Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power for electric and revenue net of fuel expense for gas. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power and revenue net of fuel expense 127 are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower andFuel Expense Net Weather $ (84 ) $ (36 ) $ (48 ) $ (26 ) $ (20 ) $ (6 ) $ (110 ) $ (56 ) $ (54 ) Pricing (1 ) 28 (29 ) (1 ) 28 (29 ) Settlement of PJM billing dispute 10 (10 ) 10 (10 ) Transmission (4 ) 7 (11 ) (4 ) 7 (11 ) Volume 27 13 14 (11 ) (11 ) 16 2 14 Rate increases 8 8 54 54 62 62 Customer choice 6 6 6 6 Spot market activity 9 9 9 9 Off system gas activity (25 ) (27 ) 2 (25 ) (27 ) 2 Other 10 10 (9 ) (6 ) (3 ) 1 (6 ) 7 Total increase (decrease) $ (29 ) $ 45 $ (74 ) $ (17 ) $ (10 ) $ (7 ) $ (46 ) $ 35 $ (81 ) Weather Revenues. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating degree days and cooling degree days were 3% and 11% lower, respectively. Heating degree days and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool, respectively, a home or business. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was due to lower demand as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Pricing Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues as a result of pricing reflected the reduction in distribution rates, for a total of $36 million, made to refund the PURTA tax settlement to customers. This rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the 128 regulatory liability related to the PURTA tax settlement that is reflected in taxes other than income. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenues of approximately $28 million related to higher energy market prices charged to certain large commercial and industrial customers (this increase is completely offset by a related increase in purchased power expense and has no impact on PECOs operating income), as well as other factors that were not individually significant. Purchased Power. The increase in purchased power as a result of pricing reflected the increased market prices for electricity, at which PECO procures electricity on behalf of certain large commercial and industrial customers. Settlement of PJM Billing Dispute Purchased Power. PECOs purchased power increased $10 million due to the impact of the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL during 2007. Transmission Revenues. Transmission revenue represents revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. Wholesale transmission revenue received from PJM decreased in 2008 as this revenue is based on the prior years summer peak, and the summer peak in 2007 was lower than the summer peak in 2006. Purchased Power. Transmission expenses represent wholesale transmission costs and other costs allocated by PJM, including charges for transmission system stabilization, default charges and regional transmission expansion plan costs. The increase in transmission expense was due to increased allocated costs from PJM related to charges for transmission system stabilization, partially offset by decreased wholesale transmission costs. Volume Revenues. The increase in electric revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across the residential customer class and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes. The decrease in gas revenues as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected decreased usage across the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. During the fourth quarter of 2008, PECO experienced a decrease in volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, and believes this trend may continue in 2009 due to the economic downturn. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across the residential customer class and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes. The decrease in fuel expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected decreased usage across the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Rate increases Revenues. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases reflected the impact of the scheduled generation rate increase that became effective in mid January 2007 and remained in effect throughout 2008. This electric generation rate increase represented the last 129 scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase did not affect operating income as PECO incurred corresponding and offsetting purchased power expense under its PPA with Generation. The increase in gas revenues was due to higher realized prices for natural gas, which reflected PAPUC approved rates adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas cost clause. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2008 was 11% higher than the average rate for 2007. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power attributable to electric rate increases reflected the impact of the completion of the last scheduled generation rate increase under the PPA with Generation in mid January 2007. The increase in fuel expense reflected higher realized natural gas prices. Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2008 2007 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 24,800 29,200 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 2 % The increase in electric revenue and purchase power expense associated with customer choice reflected increased usage, exclusive of the effects of weather, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class and customers, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class, returning to PECO as their electric supplier. Spot market activity Revenues. Spot market electricity sales revenue results from surplus hourly energy that occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load exceeds the actual load on the delivery day. Spot market revenue is passed through as a credit to purchased power expense to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Purchased Power. Spot market electricity purchases result from scheduled energy transactions that are insufficient to cover the actual load and, occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load is not enough to serve the actual load on the delivery day. Also, spot market purchased power expense reflects the net spot market sales and purchases activity that is passed through to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Therefore, spot market activity has no impact on PECOs operating income. Off system gas activity Revenues. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. Fuel Expense. Fuel expense related to off system gas sales includes the cost of gas sold in the wholesale market. 130 Other Revenues. The increase in other electric revenues reflects various factors, none of which were individually significant. The decrease in other gas revenues reflects decreased late payment fees and other various factors, none of which were individually significant. Fuel Expense. The decrease in other fuel expense reflects various factors, none of which were individually significant. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower andFuel Expense Net Weather $ 108 $ 47 $ 61 $ 119 $ 98 $ 21 $ 227 $ 145 $ 82 Pricing (20 ) (3 ) (17 ) (20 ) (3 ) (17 ) Settlement of PJM billing dispute (10 ) 10 (10 ) 10 Transmission 4 (1 ) 5 4 (1 ) 5 Volume 82 32 50 4 6 (2 ) 86 38 48 Rate increases (decreases) 195 184 11 (114 ) (114 ) 81 70 11 Customer choice 8 8 8 8 Spot market activity 7 7 7 7 Off system gas activity 22 21 1 22 21 1 Other 19 (2 ) 21 11 8 3 30 6 24 Total increase $ 403 $ 262 $ 141 $ 42 $ 19 $ 23 $ 445 $ 281 $ 164 Weather Revenues. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating degree days and cooling degree days were 16% and 15% higher, respectively. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was due to higher demand as a result of favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Pricing Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues as a result of pricing primarily reflected the effects of rate blocking, whereby customer charges per unit of energy delivered were reduced when usage by certain commercial and industrial customers exceeds a certain threshold. Lower energy market prices charged to certain large commercial and industrial customers also contributed to the decrease in revenues, but as this decrease is completely offset by a related decrease in purchased power expense, it did not impact PECOs operating income. 131 Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power as a result of pricing reflected the decreased market prices for electricity, at which PECO procures electricity on behalf of certain large commercial and industrial customers. Settlement of PJM billing dispute Purchased Power. PECOs purchased power expense decreased $10 million due to the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL in 2007. Transmission Revenues. Transmission revenues represent revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner. PECO earns revenue through PJM for the use of PECOs transmission facilities. Wholesale transmission revenue received from PJM increased in 2007 as this revenue is based on the prior years summer peak, and the summer peak in 2006 was higher than the summer peak in 2005. Purchased Power. Transmission expenses represent wholesale transmission costs and other costs allocated by PJM. Volume Revenues. The increase in revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in expenses as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes Rate increases (decreases) Revenues. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases of $195 million reflected $184 million related to a scheduled electric generation rate increase, which was effective for customer bills for electric generation service delivered after customers January 2007 meter readings. This electric generation rate increase represented the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase did not affect operating income as PECO incurred corresponding and offsetting purchased power expense under its PPA with Generation. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases also reflected $11 million associated with the completion in January 2007 of scheduled CTC and distribution rate increases that began in 2006. The decrease in gas revenues was due to lower realized market prices for natural gas, which reflected PAPUC approved rates adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas cost clause. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2007 was 17% lower than the average rate for 2006. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to electric rate increases reflected the scheduled generation rate increase under the PPA with Generation, which directly offset the increase in revenues. The decrease in fuel expense reflected lower realized market prices for natural gas. 132 Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 29,200 34,400 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 2 % The increase in electric revenue and purchased power expense associated with customer choice reflected customers, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class, returning to PECO as their electric supplier. Spot market activity Revenues. Spot market electricity sales revenue results from surplus hourly energy that occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load exceeds the actual load on the delivery day. Spot market revenue is passed through as a credit to purchased power expense to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Purchased Power. Spot market electricity purchases result from scheduled energy transactions that are insufficient to cover the actual load and, occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load is not enough to serve the actual load on the delivery day. Also, spot market purchased power expense reflects the net spot market sales and purchases activity that is passed through to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Therefore, spot market activity has no impact on PECOs operating income. Off system gas activity Revenues. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. Fuel Expense. The fuel expense related to off system gas sales includes the cost of gas sold in the wholesale market. Other Revenues. The increase in electric and gas revenues reflected increased late payment fees and other factors, none of which was individually significant. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power expense and the increase in fuel expense were due to various factors, none of which was individually significant. 133 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ 89 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits 4 Contracting 1 Injuries and damages expense (2 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 101 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ 13 Contracting (a) 12 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits 6 Environmental reserve (b) 4 Injuries and damages expense (c) 3 Incremental storm related costs (39 ) Severance related expenses (5 ) PSEG merger integration costs incurred in 2006 (4 ) Other 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) Reflects higher 2007 contracting expense primarily associated with vegetation management services and tax consulting. (b) Reflects lower expense in 2006 due to a settlement related to a Superfund site. (c) Reflects higher 2006 storm related costs primarily associated with a significant storm in the third quarter of 2006. Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense. The additional expense is primarily due to updated reserve estimates to reflect anticipated increases in customer account charge offs associated with recent and upcoming increases in customer terminations, as well as, the further deterioration in actual and projected collections of PECOs higher risk customer accounts receivable. PECO experienced an increase in the aging of its high risk accounts receivable balances. The higher expense is in part as a result of a previous temporary suspension of certain collection processes during a billing system conversion project in 2006 and 2007. Finally, enrollment has also increased in customer assistance programs for low income customers, which results in the eventual forgiveness of certain outstanding account balances. Management believes the current overall negative economic conditions are contributing to the increase in uncollectible accounts expense in 2008 and may negatively impact future uncollectible accounts expense relative to historical levels. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 CTC amortization (a) $ 78 $ 69 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (9 ) Other 3 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 81 $ 63 134 (a) PECOs CTC amortization is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $9 million in 2006. The new system was implemented in 2006. Taxes Other Than Income. The decrease in taxes other than income for 2008 compared to 2007 and the increase in 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs.2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs.2006 PURTA Amortization (a) $ (36 ) $ Reduction of reserve related to PURTA tax appeal (b) 17 (17 ) Sales and use tax 3 5 Taxes on utility revenues (c) 2 25 State franchise tax adjustment in 2006 (d) 7 Other (1 ) (2 ) (Decrease) increase in taxes other than income $ (15 ) $ 18 (a) The decrease is due to the amortization of the regulatory liability recorded in connection with the 2007 PURTA settlement which began in January 2008. The impact of the amortization on operating income is offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in the distribution rates to refund the PURTA taxes to customers. (b) On March 27, 2007, PECO prevailed in a Pennsylvania Supreme Court case in which PECO had contested the assessment of PURTA taxes applicable to 1997. As a result, PECO reduced the reserve associated with this matter. (c) The increase in tax expense in 2008 compared to 2007 was due to a gross receipts tax rate increase that became effective on January 1, 2008, partially offset by a decrease in revenues. The increase in tax expense in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to the increase in revenues. These increases were offset by corresponding increases in revenues, as these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities. (d) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to lower long term debt balances owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Other, Net. The decrease in other, net for 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the impacts of interest income recorded in 2007 as a result of the successful PURTA tax appeal and interest income recorded in 2007 related to the SSCM settlement, partially offset by an increase in interest income related to uncertain income tax positions. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of other, net. The increase in other, net for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to interest income recorded as a result of the successful PURTA tax appeal and interest income related to uncertain tax positions, partially offset by the impacts of a 2006 investment tax credit refund and a 2006 research and development credit refund. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of other, net. Effective Income Tax Rate Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. PECOs effective income tax rate was 31.6% for 2008 compared to 31.2% for 2007. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007 partially offset by reduced income in 2008 while permanent differences remained relatively constant. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 135 Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. PECOs effective income tax rate was 31.2% for 2007 compared to 29.0% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an investment tax credit refund and a research and development credit refund in 2006, partially offset by the benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Full service (a) Residential 13,287 13,446 (1.2 )% 12,796 5.1 % Small commercial & industrial 8,211 8,288 (0.9 )% 7,818 6.0 % Large commercial & industrial 16,474 16,522 (0.3 )% 15,898 3.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 909 930 (2.3 )% 906 2.6 % Total full service 38,881 39,186 (0.8 )% 37,418 4.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 30 42 (28.6 )% 61 (31.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 469 571 (17.9 )% 671 (14.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 3 14 (78.6 )% 35 (60.0 )% Total delivery only 502 627 (19.9 )% 767 (18.3 )% Total retail deliveries 39,383 39,813 (1.1 )% 38,185 4.3 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Full service (a) Residential $ 1,916 $ 1,948 (1.6 )% $ 1,780 9.4 % Small commercial & industrial 1,028 1,042 (1.3 )% 943 10.5 % Large commercial & industrial 1,406 1,386 1.4 % 1,286 7.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 87 89 (2.2 )% 83 7.2 % Total full service 4,437 4,465 (0.6 )% 4,092 9.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 2 4 (50.0 )% 5 (20.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 25 30 (16.7 )% 36 (16.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 0.0 % 1 (100.0 )% Total delivery only 27 34 (20.6 )% 42 (19.0 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,464 4,499 (0.8 )% 4,134 8.8 % Other revenue (c) 282 276 2.2 % 238 16.0 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,746 $ 4,775 (0.6 )% $ 4,372 9.2 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 136 PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Retail sales 56,110 58,968 (4.8 )% 50.578 16.6 % Transportation 27,624 27,632 0.0 % 25,527 8.3 % Total 83,734 86,600 (3.3 )% 76,105 13.8 % Revenue 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Retail sales $ 795 $ 784 1.4 % $ 770 1.8 % Transportation 19 17 11.8 % 16 6.3 % Resales and other 7 37 (81.1 )% 10 n.m. Total gas revenue $ 821 $ 838 (2.0 )% $ 796 5.3 % n.m. Not meaningful Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $957 million, $4.8 billion, $952 million and $574 million, respectively. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. In the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a new letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement for certain tax exempt financings supported by first mortgage bonds. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. To manage cash flows and its capital structure, as more fully described below, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2008, 2007 or 2006. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. 137 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. During 2008, Exelons unfunded status of its pension plans increased significantly, primarily due to lower than expected 2008 asset returns, which is expected to result in increased benefit costs and required funding contributions in future years. Such increases could be material to 2009 and subsequent years. The Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (WRERA), which was signed into law on December 23, 2008, grants plan sponsors relief from funding requirements and benefit restrictions, and also provides some technical corrections to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act). One such technical correction, referred to as asset smoothing, allows the use of asset averaging, including expected returns (subject to certain limitations), for a 24 month period in the determination of funding requirements. Exelon has not yet determined whether it will elect this option. If Exelon elects the asset smoothing option, it would provide Exelon the opportunity to defer certain contributions to later years or potentially mitigate future contributions through market recovery. If Exelon does not elect the asset smoothing option, the minimum pension contributions as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Act, as well as discretionary contributions to avoid benefit restrictions, are expected to be approximately $162 million, $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion and $664 million in 2009, 2010 2011, 2012 2013 and 2014, respectively, with an aggregate of $4 billion during the periods. If Exelon elected the asset smoothing option, the minimum pension contributions are expected to be approximately $162 million, $832 million, $2.6 billion and $578 million in 2009, 2010 2011, 2012 2013 and 2014, respectively, with an aggregate of $4.1 billion during the periods. The expected increase in minimum required contributions for pension and OPEB costs through 2014 that cannot be funded from cash from operations may need to be funded through external financings. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons pension plans and see Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations within Liquidity and Capital Resources for the expected pension minimum funding requirements, including discretionary contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions, for the years 2009 2013. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified nuclear decommissioning trust fund to a qualified nuclear decommissioning trust fund. As a result of recent interpretative guidance published by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to this provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008, which resulted in net positive cash flow of approximately $280 million in total for 2008 and 2009 combined. In addition, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The ultimate outcome of this matter could result in unfavorable or favorable impacts to Exelons and ComEds results of operations, cash flows and financial positions, and such impacts could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 138 The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ending December 31, 2008 and 2007: 2008 2007 Variance Net income $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1 Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,400 2,845 555 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (230 ) (204 ) (26 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (383 ) (365 ) (18 ) Counterparty collateral, net 1,027 (516 ) 1,543 Net cash flows provided by operations $ 6,551 $ 4,496 $ 2,055 (a) Includes depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, pension and other postretirement benefits expense, other decommissioning related activities, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment charges, pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments and other non cash items. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on non cash operating activities. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2008 and 2007 by Registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ 6,551 $ 4,496 Generation 4,445 2,994 ComEd 1,079 520 PECO 969 980 Changes in Exelons, Generations and ComEds cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in the respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. The significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Exelon In 2007, Exelon contributed $50 million to the Exelon Foundation, a nonconsolidated not for profit Illinois corporation. The Exelon Foundation was established in the fourth quarter of 2007 to serve educational and environmental philanthropic purposes. The Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 was enacted in the first quarter of 2008 and includes an incentive that allows companies to claim an accelerated depreciation deduction for Federal income tax purposes equal to 50% of the cost basis of certain property placed in service during 2008 and to a lesser extent in 2009. Exelon received $248 million in 2008 as a result of this special tax depreciation provision. Generation During 2008, Generation had net collections of counterparty collateral of $1,029 million compared to $(518) million of net disbursements of counterparty collateral in 2007 and $431 million of net collections of counterparty collateral in 2006. The increase in collections was primarily due to changes in market conditions that resulted in an increased mark to market asset position. When Generation is in a mark to market liability position and is required to post collateral with its counterparties, the collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, commercial paper or letters of credit. 139 During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $274 million in 2008 and $331 million in 2007. Generation received a net cash payment from State Line of approximately $228 million, after adjustments, in consideration for the termination of the State Line PPA and the purchase of coal inventories on hand (and in transit) and other assets. During 2008 and 2007, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd under its supplier forward agreement and its PPA with ComEd, which expired on December 31, 2006, increased (decreased) by $99 million and $(137) million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, Generations accounts receivable from PECO under its PPA with PECO increased (decreased) by $6 million and $(32) million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, Generation had net payments of approximately $123 million and net receipts of approximately $28 million, respectively, related to option premiums, primarily due to greater hedging activity in 2008 compared to 2007. ComEd As a result of upgraded credit ratings to investment grade, ComEd has been making monthly payments to its energy suppliers, including Generation, under supplier forward contracts since April 2008. Prior to the credit ratings upgrade, ComEd made semi monthly payments to its energy suppliers. Starting in June 2008, ComEd also began procuring power and renewable energy credits under its request for proposal (RFP) contracts and started to settle the financial swap with Generation. During 2008 and 2007, ComEds payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $99 million and $(137) million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers increased by $41 million and $72 million, respectively. As part of the 2007 Illinois Settlement and its rate relief programs, ComEd contributed approximately $13 million and $41 million to rate relief programs in 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the rate relief programs. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, ComEd had net over recovered energy costs and net under recovered energy costs of $29 million and $97 million, respectively. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ (3,378 ) $ (2,909 ) Generation (1,967 ) (1,424 ) ComEd (958 ) (1,015 ) PECO (377 ) (337 ) 140 Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2008 and projected amounts for 2009 are as follows: 2008 2009 Generation (a) $ 1,699 $ 1,957 ComEd 953 1,000 PECO 392 416 Other (b) 73 71 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 3,117 $ 3,444 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Projected capital expenditures and other investments by the Registrants are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Approximately 46% of the projected 2009 capital expenditures at Generation are for the acquisition of nuclear fuel, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Actual 2008 capital expenditures were higher than the projected 2008 capital expenditures previously disclosed in the 2007 Annual Report on Form 10 K as a result of accelerating capital expenditures in 2008 to take advantage of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 which provides accelerated tax depreciation benefits for assets purchased and placed in service during the year. Exelon anticipates that Generations capital expenditures during 2009 will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. As discussed under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, Generation has begun the application process that would allow for the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas, and Generation is considering the development of a 600 megawatt combined cycle natural gas plant in Pennsylvania. While Generation has not made a decision to build these plants, should Generation decide to build these or other plants in the future, substantial additional resources would be required. Such capital projects would have a material impact on the use of Exelons and Generations capital resources. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 51% and 52% of the projected 2009 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve the reliability of their respective transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer growth including capacity expansion. ComEd and PECO are each continuing to evaluate their total 2009 capital spending requirements due to the recent decline in economic conditions and projections of load growth, which may reduce total 2009 capital expenditures. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund their capital expenditures during 2009 by internally generated funds and the issuance of debt. Other significant investing activities for Exelon and Generation for 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $9 million and $93 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Generation During 2007, Generation received approximately $42 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to its retired units. 141 On February 9, 2007, Tamuin International Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Generation, sold its 49.5% ownership interests in TEG and TEP to a subsidiary of AES Corporation for $95 million in cash plus certain purchase price adjustments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) used in financing activities for 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ (2,213 ) $ (1,500 ) Generation (1,470 ) (1,571 ) ComEd (161 ) 547 PECO (587 ) (638 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2008 and 2007 by registrant was as follows: Company Issuance of long term debt in 2008 Use of proceeds ComEd $700 million of First Mortgage 5.80% Bonds, Series 108, due March 15, 2018 Used to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility, to provide for the retirement at scheduled maturity in May 2008 of $120 million of First Mortgage bonds, Series 83, and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038 Used to retire $295 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, to refinance $155 million of trust preferred securities and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (a)(b) Used to refinance $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (a)(b) Used to refinance $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 (a)(b) Used to refinance a portion of the outstanding tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, 2003 B and 2003 D, due May 15, 2017, November 1, 2019 and January 15, 2014, respectively. PECO $150 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 4.00% due December 1, 2012 Used to refinance First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable auction rate due December 1, 2012. PECO $500 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.35% due March 1, 2018 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. PECO $300 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.60% Series due October 15, 2013 Used to refinance short term debt. 142 (a) First Mortgage bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were issued to refinance variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) During the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement to variable rate tax exempt bonds. The new facility and letters of credit issued under the new facility will expire by June 27, 2009. Company Issuance of long term debt in 2007 Use of proceeds Generation $700 million of 6.20% Senior Notes, due October 1, 2017 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. Generation $46 million of Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 Will be used to finance a portion of the construction and installation costs of emissions control facilities at Keystone Generating Station. ComEd $300 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to refinance outstanding commercial paper and to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility. ComEd $425 million of First Mortgage 6.15% Bonds, Series 106, due September 15, 2017 Used to repay borrowings made under its revolving credit agreement. PECO $175 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.70% Series due March 15, 2037 Used to supplement working capital previously financed through sales of commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. 143 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2008 Exelon $21 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $3 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $295 million of 3.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, due February 1, 2008 ComEd $274 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 ComEd $155 million of 8.50% Subordinated Debentures related to ComEd Financing II, due January 15, 2027 ComEd $120 million of 8.00% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83, due May 15, 2008 ComEd $100 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2002, due April 15, 2013 (a) ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 (a) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 (a) ComEd $42 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 B, due November 1, 2019 (a) ComEd $40 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, due May 15, 2017 (a) ComEd $20 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 D, due January 15, 2014 (a) ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $4 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 PECO $450 million of 3.5% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due May 1, 2008 PECO $207 million of 6.13% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2008 PECO $369 million of 7.625% PETT Transition Bonds, due March 1, 2009 PECO $33 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 (a) First Mortgage bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture that secured variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were refinanced. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 144 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2007 Exelon $88 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 ComEd $145 million of 7.625% note payable, due January 15, 2007 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $17 million of variable rate special agreement accounts receivable, due November 2010 ComEd $138 million of 5.63% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due June 25, 2007 (a)(b) ComEd $236 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 PECO $641 million of 6.13% PETT, due September 1, 2008 PECO $30 million of 7.625% PETT, due March 1, 2009 (a) Amount includes $17 million previously reflected in prepaid interest. This amount did not impact ComEds Consolidated Statement of Operations or ComEds Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. (b) ComEd applied $8 million of previously prepaid balances against the long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Registrants debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ 1,335 $ 1,180 Generation 1,545 2,357 PECO 484 566 Exelon paid dividends of $330 million, $329 million, $330 million, and $346 million on March 10, 2008, June 10, 2008, September 10, 2008, and December 10, 2008, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2008, May 15, 2008, August 15, 2008, and November 14, 2008, respectively. On January 27, 2009, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2009 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 13, 2009. Exelon paid dividends of $296 million, $296 million, $297 million, and $291 million on March 10, 2007, June 11, 2007, September 10, 2007 and December 10, 2007, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2007, May 15, 2007, August 15, 2007 and November 15, 2007, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, ComEd did not pay any dividend to manage cash flows and its capital structure. On January 26, 2009, the ComEd board declared a dividend of $0.472 per share on its common stock. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend in future periods. Share Repurchases. During 2008, Exelon purchased $500 million of common stock under Exelons accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock. During 2007, Exelon purchased $37 million of common stock under Exelons 2004 share repurchase program and $1.25 billion of common stock 145 under Exelons 2007 accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of forward contracts indexed to Exelons own common stock. On September 2, 2008, Exelons Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of Exelons outstanding common stock. Exelon management has determined to defer indefinitely any share repurchases. This decision was made in light of a variety of factors, including: developments affecting the world economy and commodity markets, including those for electricity and gas; the continued uncertainty in capital and credit markets and the potential impact of those events on Exelons future cash needs; projected cash needs to support investment in the business, including maintenance capital and nuclear uprates; and value added growth opportunities, including possible acquisitions such as the proposed acquisition of NRG Energy, Inc. See Note 16 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Intercompany Money Pool. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon Corporate intercompany money pool did not change during 2008 and 2007. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon Corporate intercompany money pool did not change during 2008. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon Corporate intercompany money pool decreased $45 million in 2007. Short Term Borrowings. During 2008, Exelon and PECO repaid $95 million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2008, ComEd repaid $310 million of outstanding borrowings under ComEds credit agreement. During 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO (repaid) issued $(59) million, $(60) million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2007, ComEd issued $370 million of short term borrowings under ComEds credit agreement. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 2007 Exelon $ 1,038 $ 1,020 ComEd 429 349 PECO 609 671 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 2007 Generation $ 86 $ 54 ComEd 14 28 PECO (a) 320 338 (a) $284 million and $306 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the parent receivable. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $130 million and $215 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Exelons other financing activities during 2008 and 2007 include $60 million and $97 million, respectively, of excess tax benefits, which represent the tax deduction in excess of the tax benefit related to compensation cost recognized for stock options exercised. 146 Credit Matters Recent Market Conditions The Registrants believe they have sufficient liquidity despite the current disruption of the capital and credit markets. The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flow from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and a large, diversified credit facility ($7.3 billion in aggregate total commitments and $6.9 billion available as of December 31, 2008, of which no financial institution, assuming announced consolidations, has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation and PECO and 12% for ComEd). Select Registrants also have additional letter of credit facilities used solely to enhance tax exempt variable rate debt. Certain of these letters of credit will expire in 2009 ($311 million and $194 million at Generation and ComEd, respectively), which the Registrants plan to extend or substitute. While Exelon, Generation and PECO accessed the commercial paper market intermittently in 2008, they were able to fund their short term liquidity needs with commercial paper, when necessary. Although the overall cost of issuing commercial paper was lower in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to recent Federal Reserve Bank actions and guarantee programs, credit spreads during 2008 generally widened based on the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rate and the actual interest rates on commercial paper issued by Exelon, Generation and PECO. ComEd has been utilizing its credit facility to fund its short term liquidity needs. The Registrants routinely review liquidity sufficiency, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. As the national and world wide financial crisis has worsened in recent months, the Registrants have continued to closely monitor events and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of a longer term disruption in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. If Generation and ComEd lost their investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, they would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $830 million and $282 million, respectively, which is well within their current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion and $751 million, respectively. On October 21, 2008, Standard and Poors Corporation downgraded PECOs corporate credit rating to BBB from BBB+. Subsequently, PECO provided PJM $90 million in collateral in the form of a letter of credit. If PECO were to have lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, it would have been required to provide collateral of an additional $20 million in accordance with PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $135 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of $481 million. On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (Lehman) filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of New York. Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO have or had various business relationships with subsidiaries of Lehman. The Registrants no longer have any credit facility commitments with Lehman as of September 30, 2008. Generation is a counterparty with Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc., a subsidiary of Lehman, in wholesale energy marketing transactions. The obligations of Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc. are guaranteed by Lehman, and as a result of the Lehman bankruptcy, Generation exercised its right to terminate its forward contract with Lehman Brothers Commodity Services, Inc. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon and Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc., based on Generations wholesale energy marketing business and market prices, was $22 million pre tax, which was fully reserved through a charge to the statement of operations during the year ended December 31, 2008. 147 Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper. Generation and PECO meet their short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from the intercompany money pool, and ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through borrowings under its credit facility. While short term borrowing costs have not been significant to date, further disruptions in the credit markets may result in increased costs for commercial paper borrowings. Continued disruptions in the credit markets could limit the ability of the Registrants to issue commercial paper, which may increase their reliance on their respective revolving credit facilities for short term liquidity purposes. The Registrants may use their respective credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including meeting short term funding requirements and the issuance of letters of credit. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants credit facilities. At December 31, 2008, the Registrants had the following aggregate bank commitments and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower Aggregate BankCommitment (a) OutstandingCommercialPaper OutstandingLetters ofCredit Available Capacity underRevolving CreditAgreements (b) Exelon Corporate $ 957 $ 56 $ 5 $ 952 Generation 4,834 127 4,707 ComEd 952 141 751 PECO 574 95 93 481 (a) Represents the total bank commitments to the borrower under credit agreements to which the borrower is a party. (b) Available capacity represents the unused bank commitments under the borrowers credit agreements net of outstanding letters of credit and credit facility draws. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit agreements. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the LIBOR plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 162.5 basis points for the unsecured facility. The average interest rates on short term debt (facility borrowings and commercial paper) for 2008 for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO were approximately 3.22%, 3.13%, 3.91% and 3.22%, respectively. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The interest coverage ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and interest on nonrecourse debt. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the year ended December 31, 2008: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2008, the interest coverage ratios at the Registrants were as follows: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Interest coverage ratio 12.20 28.44 3.83 6.15 148 An event of default under any of the Registrants credit facilities will not constitute an event of default under any of the other Registrants credit facilities, except that a bankruptcy or other event of default in the payment of principal, premium or indebtedness in principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate by Generation under its credit facility will constitute an event of default under the Exelon credit facility. Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2008: Securities MoodysInvestorsService Standard &PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Corporate Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Baa3 BBB BBB Senior secured debt Baa2 BBB+ BBB Commercial paper P3 A3 B PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F2 Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On March 19, 2008, S&P upgraded ComEds long term unsecured security ratings from B+ to BBB as a result of a change in methodology by S&P. On September 11, 2008, S&P upgraded ComEds corporate rating from BB to BBB and upgraded its long term, secured security ratings from BBB to BBB+ to reflect the improving regulatory environment in Illinois. S&P also increased ComEds commercial paper rating to A 3 from B. On October 3, 2008, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) upgraded the long term senior unsecured rating of ComEd to Baa3 from Ba1 and the commercial paper rating to Prime 3 from Not Prime. ComEds senior secured rating of Baa2 remains unchanged, and ComEds rating outlook is stable. A Moodys press release indicated that the upgrade largely reflects our assessment of the distribution rate case decision and also factors in the improved financial flexibility that exists at ComEd as the first mortgage collateral, which had previously secured the companys $1 billion revolving credit facility was released and replaced by a similar sized unsecured revolving credit facility. On October 21, 2008, S&P lowered its corporate credit rating on Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO to BBB from BBB+. S&P lowered the senior unsecured ratings of Exelon Corporate to BBB from BBB and of Generation to BBB from BBB+. The senior secured rating of PECO was lowered to A from A. In addition, the ratings of Exelon Corporate and all of its subsidiaries, including ComEd, were placed on CreditWatch with a negative outlook. S&P indicated concerns about Exelons potential credit position related to the proposed offer to acquire NRG. The short term commercial paper ratings of Exelon Corporate and all of its subsidiaries were affirmed by S&P. This downgrade triggered a reduction in PECOs unsecured credit limit in accordance with PJMs credit policy. PECO issued a letter of credit to PJM for $90 million to restore the amount of its unsecured credit. Generation was not required to provide collateral as a result of this downgrade. No collateral requirements of Exelon and ComEd were impacted by this downgrade. 149 On October 21, 2008, Fitch Ratings, Ltd. placed Exelon and Generation on Rating Watch Negative following the announcement of the proposed offer for NRG. On November 12, 2008, Moodys Investors Service placed the ratings of Exelon, Generation and PECO under review for possible downgrade. In addition, S&P placed the short term ratings of Exelon, Generation and PECO on CreditWatch with negative implications. These actions were taken after Exelon commenced the exchange offer for NRGs shares. The terms of the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd provide that: (1) if ComEd is upgraded to investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or S&P and then is later downgraded below investment grade, or (2) if Generation is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or S&P, collateral postings would be required by the applicable party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. As previously noted above, ComEd was upgraded to investment grade by S&P, and, therefore, the aforementioned condition has been satisfied such that if ComEd is later downgraded, it could be subject to margining depending on market prices at that time. However, under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation under the swap contract. Exelon or any of the Registrants might experience a downgrade in its credit ratings by one or more notches if the transaction with NRG is completed. Exelon remains committed to investment grade ratings and is committed that the NRG transaction will not cause Exelon or its subsidiaries to go below investment grade for senior unsecured debt. Potential measures to protect investment grade ratings include issuing additional equity, sale of assets, or reducing dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. None of the Registrants borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under the Registrants credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Variable Rate Debt As of December 31, 2008, Generation had $566 million outstanding in tax exempt variable rate debt, of which $520 million is credit enhanced by letters of credit and $46 million is unenhanced. The $46 million of unenhanced bonds remarket during the first quarter, where there may or may not be buyers willing to purchase the securities. If the securities fail to remarket, Generation has the option to hold the bonds for a period of time and wait until there are willing buyers. Generation also has the option to issue a letter of credit to credit enhance the bonds for the variable rate mode, or Generation has the option to change to another mode, including put bonds or fixed rate to maturity. For the $520 million in tax exempt variable rate debt that is backed by letters of credit, $307 million in principal of letters of credit expire during the third quarter of 2009. Generation anticipates renewing the letters of credit with existing banks or entering into letters of credit with new banks. If letters of credit are not available or are not economical, Generation will be prepared to hold the bonds for a period of time or change the bonds to another interest rate mode, including put bonds or fixed rate to maturity. Generation believes that the final results of the unenhanced debt, the letters of credit or possible mode changes will not be material. The remaining $213 million in principal of tax exempt variable rate debt at Generation has letters of credit that expire during the second quarter of 2010. 150 As of December 31, 2008, ComEd had $191 million outstanding in tax exempt variable rate debt that is credit enhanced by letters of credit and expire during the second quarter of 2009. ComEd anticipates renewing the letters of credit with existing banks, or entering into letters of credit with new banks. If letters of credit are not available or are not economical, ComEd will be prepared to hold the bonds for a period of time or change the bonds to another interest rate mode, including put bonds or fixed rate to maturity. ComEd believes the final results of the letters of credit or possible mode changes will not be material. As of January 1, 2008, PECO had $154 million of tax exempt variable auction rate securities outstanding. On March 5, 2008, PECO issued $150 million of 4% fixed rate tax exempt First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due December 1, 2012, to refinance three series of outstanding variable auction rate, tax exempt bonds. On May 1, 2008, PECO used available cash and redeemed its remaining $4.2 million of tax exempt variable auction rate bonds. Investments in Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to offset inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the values of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocations in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. With regards to equity securities, Generations investment policy establishes limits on the concentration of equity holdings in any one company and also in any one industry. With regards to its fixed income securities, Generations investment policy limits the concentrations of the types of bonds that may be purchased for the trust funds and also requires a minimum percentage of the portfolio to have investment grade ratings (minimum credit quality ratings of Baa3 by Moodys Investor Service, BBB by S&P and BBB by Fitch Ratings) while requiring that the overall portfolio maintain a minimum credit quality rating of A2. See Executive Overview for further information regarding the trust funds and the NRCs minimum funding requirements and related liquidity ramifications. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure At December 31, 2008, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 47 % 28 % 40 % 35 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 6 2 23 Common equity 46 57 39 Members equity 72 Preferred securities 1 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 1 2 (a) As of December 31, 2008, PECOs capital structure, excluding the impacts of the deduction from shareholders equity of the $500 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table above) would consist of 44% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 2% notes payable and 53% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. (b) Includes approximately $1.5 billion, $200 million and $1.3 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing transition bonds to securitize intangible transition property consisting of CTCs of PECO or mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding FIN 46 R. 151 Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2008 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2008: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2008Contributed (Borrowed) Generation $ 288 $ 328 $ PECO 328 405 BSC 6 92 Exelon 183 Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2008, the Registrants had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd had $389 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $399 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2008, PECO had $975 million in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC expiring in May 2009. PECO plans to seek additional authority from the PAPUC during the first or second quarter of 2009. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from the FERC that expire on December 31, 2009 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC with its market based rate authority. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital 152 account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2008, Exelon had retained earnings of $6.8 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,323 million, ComEds retained earnings of $170 million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $1,639 million partially offset by $1,809 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends, and PECOs retained earnings of $389 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owns interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that own synthetic fuel producing facilities. Prior to December 31, 2007, Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provided tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. The ability to earn these synthetic fuel tax credits expired on December 31, 2007 and, as such, the synthetic fuel producing facilities that Exelon had interests in ceased operations on or before December 31, 2007. In March 2008, the IRS published the 2007 oil Reference Price which resulted in a 67% phase out of tax credits for calendar year 2007 that reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $258 million to $85 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Exelon generated approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments. As a result of the phase out of tax credits in 2007 and the timing of the realization of tax benefits earned in prior years, Exelon collected approximately $200 million of cash in 2008, which includes $44 million collected in the first quarter of 2008 related to the settlement of derivatives that were entered into in the normal course of trading operations in 2005 to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 11,407 $ 27 $ 2,410 $ 1,377 $ 7,593 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 1,514 319 805 390 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 6,770 627 1,160 881 4,102 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 675 94 72 50 459 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 446 5 441 Capital leases 40 2 5 4 29 Operating leases 762 68 124 117 453 Purchase power obligations (c) 3,568 526 708 543 1,791 Fuel purchase agreements 6,504 1,325 1,774 1,185 2,220 Other purchase obligations (d) 1,076 333 420 268 55 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (e) 24 6 12 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,015 1,015 Pension minimum funding requirement (f) 4,011 162 1,647 1,538 664 Other postretirement benefits minimum funding requirement (g) 256 56 98 102 Total contractual obligations $ 38,068 $ 3,550 $ 9,235 $ 6,071 $ 18,771 $ 441 153 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2008. (b) As of December 31, 2008, Exelons FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $430 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the tables represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2008. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreement with the City of Chicago, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (f) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as well as discretionary contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. As further described in Cash Flows From Operating Activities above, WRERA clarified that asset smoothing is permitted in accordance with the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Exelon has not yet determined whether it will elect this option. If Exelon elected this option, the total contributions in the table above would be $162 million, $832 million, $2,563 million and $578 million in 2009, 2010 2011, 2012 2013 and 2014, respectively. The minimum required contributions for years after 2014 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may choose to make additional discretionary contributions. (g) These amounts represent estimated minimum other postretirement benefit contributions required under a PAPUC rate order. These minimum contributions represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2014 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary. Exelons commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 430 $ 430 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 18 7 11 Surety bonds (c) 88 7 81 Performance guarantees (d) 296 200 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (e) 207 162 40 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (f) 1,997 1,997 Lease guarantees (g) 131 3 9 119 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (h) 14 8 4 2 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (i) 14 4 8 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (j) 152 128 24 Construction commitments (k) 341 123 135 83 Total commitments $ 3,688 $ 1,069 $ 225 $ 191 $ 2,203 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon had $225 million of outstanding letters of credit (non debt) issued under its $6.6 billion credit agreements. Guarantees of $10 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amounts of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $566 million at Generation and $191 million at ComEd are reflected in long term debt in Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. 154 (d) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (e) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (f) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (g) Lease guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure payments on building leases. (h) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the 2007 City of Chicago Settlement. (i) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, $1 million is included as a liability on Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 related to this guarantee. (j) See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (k) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds and PECOs construction commitments. Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment Due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 2,476 $ 10 $ 700 $ $ 1,766 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 884 131 235 165 353 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 24 2 22 Capital leases 40 2 5 4 29 Operating leases 449 27 50 49 323 Purchase power obligations (c) 3,568 526 708 543 1,791 Fuel purchase agreements 5,999 1,168 1,615 1,107 2,109 Other purchase commitments (d) 690 167 293 191 39 Pension minimum funding requirement (e) 123 20 42 42 19 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 1,015 1,015 Total contractual obligations $ 15,268 $ 2,053 $ 3,648 $ 2,101 $ 7,444 $ 22 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2008. (b) As of December 31, 2008, Generations FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $14 million and $10 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2008. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) These amounts represent Generations estimated minimum pension contributions to the AmerGen postretirement benefit plans as required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information). As a result of the dissolution of AmerGen effective January 8, 2009, Exelon became the sponsor of the AmerGen benefit plans and assumed these minimum funding obligations. 155 Generations commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a)(b) $ 136 $ 136 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (c) 15 4 11 Surety bonds (d) 5 2 3 Performance guarantees (e) 296 200 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (f) 207 162 40 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (g) 1,997 1,997 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (h) 142 118 24 Other 1 1 Total commitments $ 2,799 $ 623 $ 75 $ 95 $ 2,006 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. Guarantees of $8 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) The amount includes letters of credit that are posted to ComEd related to the Illinois procurement auction. (c) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $566 million is reflected in long term debt in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (f) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (h) See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations rate relief commitments. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, had a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas were indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England had guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $13 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. In April 2008, Distrigas, Exelon New England and Mystic entered into agreements that terminated the guarantee, which resulted in Generations elimination of the guarantee liability and the recognition of $13 million of income. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. During 2008, the value of the trust funds declined significantly due to unrealized losses as a result of adverse financial market conditions. Despite this decline in value, Generation believes that the decommissioning trust funds for the nuclear generating stations formerly owned by ComEd, PECO and AmerGen, the expected earnings thereon and, in the case of the former PECO stations, the amounts collected from PECOs customers will ultimately be sufficient to fully fund Generations decommissioning obligations for its nuclear generating stations in accordance with NRC regulations. However, NRC minimum funding requirements may require Generation to take steps to address the 156 funded status of the trust funds. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels. Depending on the value of the trust funds, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or make additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Exelons and Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. Generations next report to the NRC is due on March 31, 2009, based on trust fund values and estimated decommissioning obligations as of December 31, 2008. Based on these values, six units at three nuclear generating stations were in an underfunded position by approximately $185 million in total at December 31, 2008, relative to the NRC minimum funding requirements. Exelon and Generation currently are evaluating the remedy that will be used to address the underfunded status. For a further discussion of matters regarding the adequacy of Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds to meet its decommissioning obligations, the obligations imposed on Generation related to the potential excess or shortfall of trust funds, the impact on Generations accounting for its former ComEd units as a result of a shortfall of trust funds and other matters related to Generations trust funds and decommissioning obligations, see Note12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 4,756 $ 17 $ 560 $ 702 $ 3,477 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 206 206 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 3,461 272 530 426 2,233 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 321 13 26 26 256 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 477 3 474 Operating leases 119 20 35 31 33 Other purchase commitments (c) 95 71 21 3 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 24 6 12 6 Total contractual obligations $ 9,459 $ 402 $ 1,184 $ 1,194 $ 6,205 $ 474 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2008, ComEds FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $387 million and $90 million, respectively. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. Other purchase commitments do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds supplier forward contracts. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. 157 ComEds commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 166 $ 166 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 3 3 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (c) 14 8 4 2 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (d) 14 4 8 2 Surety bonds (e) 2 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (f) 10 10 Construction commitments (g) 188 71 73 44 Other 2 2 Total commitments $ 399 $ 266 $ 85 $ 48 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $191 million is reflected in long term debt in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the 2007 City of Chicago Settlement. (d) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), $1 million is included as a liability on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 related to this guarantee. (e) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (f) See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds rate relief commitments. (g) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds construction commitments. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 1,975 $ $ 250 $ 675 $ 1,050 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 1,308 319 805 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,332 107 212 162 851 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 355 81 46 24 204 FIN 48 liability (b) 1 1 Operating leases 169 22 42 41 64 Fuel purchase agreements (c) 505 157 159 78 111 Other purchase commitments (d) 124 34 39 35 16 Total contractual obligations $ 5,769 $ 720 $ 1,553 $ 1,015 $ 2,480 $ 1 158 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2008, PECOs FIN 48 liability was $1 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain FIN 48 liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECOs commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 122 $ 122 $ $ $ Surety bonds (b) 3 3 Construction commitments (c) 153 52 62 39 Total commitments $ 278 $ 177 $ 62 $ 39 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) PECO maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (c) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on PECOs construction commitments. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FIN 48 liabilities, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel obligations, see Notes 12 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Variable Interest Entities Generation PPAs. Generation enters into power purchase agreements (PPAs) with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers, including ComEd and PECO, and these PPAs are not consolidated in Exelons and Generations financial statements pursuant to the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46 R). See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. The financing trusts of ComEd, namely ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, and the financing trusts of PECO, namely PECO Trust III, PECO Trust IV and PETT, are not consolidated 159 in Exelons, ComEds and PECOs financial statements pursuant to the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities and FIN 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46 R). Amounts of approximately $200 million and $1.3 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to financing trusts and PETT within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008. During 2008, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were liquidated upon final payment of the outstanding debt of each entity. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it sold an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement no. 125, (SFAS No. 140). PECO retains the servicing responsibility for the sold receivables and has recorded a servicing liability in accordance with FASB Statement No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140. The agreement terminates on September 18, 2009 unless extended in accordance with its terms. As of December 31, 2008, PECO is in compliance with the requirements of the agreement. See Note 16 Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities for additional information regarding the servicing liability. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. In November 2008, the SEC issued a roadmap for the potential use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the U.S. IFRS is a set of accounting standards developed by the International Accounting Standards Board, whose mission is to develop a single set of global financial reporting standards for general purpose financial statements. The roadmap indicates that the SEC will reconvene in 2011 to evaluate progress towards certain identified milestones and decide whether a mandatory IFRS conversion should be required for all U.S. issuers beginning with large accelerated filers in 2014. Exelon is currently evaluating the potential impact IFRS may have on its financial statements. 160 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Corporation The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons Risk Management Committee (RMC) approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation has the most exposure to commodity price risk. PECO has transferred all of its electricity commodity price risk to Generation through a purchase power agreement (PPA) that expires at the end of 2010. PECO relies on the PAPUCs purchased gas cost clause to mitigate natural gas price risk associated with market variability, which allows PECO to adjust rates quarterly to reflect realized natural gas prices. ComEd has transferred most of its near term commodity price risk to generating companies through the former Illinois auction process and the significant portion of its longer term commodity price risk to Generation through the five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. The Illinois Settlement Legislation provides for the pass through of procurement costs by ComEd to its customers. Exelon In 2005, Exelon entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. Including the related mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities did not have any net impact on Exelons net income for the year ended December 31, 2008, and increased (reduced) Exelons net income by $87 million and $(24) million during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net income or net losses from interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities are reflected in Exelons Consolidated Statements of Operations within income taxes, operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates and other, net. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding synthetic fuel activity. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Economic hedges may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Economic hedges that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in results of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in results of operations when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the 161 fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current results of operations. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation has hedges in place for 2009 and 2010 and, with the ComEd financial swap contract, also for 2011 into 2013. The economic hedge activity resulted in a net mark to market energy contract asset position of $1,151 million at December 31, 2008, comprised of a net energy contract asset for cash flow hedges of $1,197 million and a net energy contract liability for other derivatives of $46 million. The net mark to market asset position for the portfolio at December 31, 2008 is a result of forward market prices decreasing relative to the contracted price of the derivative instruments, the majority of which are hedges of future power sales. Activity associated with the cash flow hedges are recognized through accumulated OCI until the period in which the associated physical sale of power occurs. At that time, the cash flow hedges mark to market position is reversed and reclassified as results of operations, which when combined with the impacts of the actual physical power sale, results in the ultimate recognition of net revenues at the contracted price. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation has estimated greater than 95% and 90% for economic and cash flow hedge ratios for 2009 and 2010, respectively, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This financial hedge ratio is Generations estimate of the gross margin that is hedged given the current assessment of market volatility. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations unhedged positions in its non trading portfolio associated with a 10% reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity would be a decrease in pre tax net income of less than $75 million and $150 million, respectively, for 2009 and 2010. This sensitivity assumes that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of 162 Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. The proprietary trading activities included volumes of 8,891 GWhs, 20,323 GWhs and 31,692 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2008 resulted in pre tax gains of $106 million due to net mark to market gains of $63 million and realized gains of $43 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $300,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 of $7,182 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and VaR limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons Risk Management Committee monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. ComEd ComEds energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Economic hedges may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in results of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case changes in fair value are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in results of operations when the underlying transaction occurs or if regulatory accounting criteria are met. With the exception of ComEds energy derivative swap with Generation, changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current results of operations. Since the swap contract was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates, the change in the fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction and the RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. All of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. In addition, Generation and PECO have entered into a long term full requirements power purchase agreement (PPA) under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The PPA is not considered a derivative under SFAS No. 133. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations and ComEds trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). 163 The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations and ComEds mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Generation ComEd IntercompanyEliminations (e) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2007 (a) $ 252 $ (11 ) $ $ 241 Total change in fair value during 2007 of contracts recorded in result of operations (29 ) (29 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (106 ) 4 (102 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (15 ) 3 (12 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c) (1,310 ) 4 456 (850 ) Changes in fair value energy derivative with Generation (d) 456 (456 ) Changes in collateral 519 519 Other balance sheet reclassifications (1 ) (1 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2007 (a) $ (690 ) 456 $ (234 ) Total change in fair value during 2008 of contracts recorded in result of operations 646 646 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (131 ) (131 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (b) 544 (24 ) 520 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c) 1,784 (888 ) 896 Changes in fair value energy derivative with Generation (d) (912 ) 912 Changes in collateral (1,024 ) (1,024 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications (11 ) (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2008 (a) $ 1,118 $ (456 ) $ $ 662 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. (b) For Generation, includes $24 million gain of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 related to the settlement of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd. (c) For Generation, includes $888 million gain and $456 million loss of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (d) For ComEd, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd recorded a $456 million regulatory asset related to its mark to market derivative liability. As of December 31, 2007 ComEd recorded a $456 million regulatory liability related to its mark to market derivative asset. In addition, ComEd included a net reduction of purchased power expense of $2 million related to changes in fair value of the five year swap contract with Generation for the year ended December 31, 2008. No effect to purchased power expense was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2007. (e) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. 164 The following tables detail the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2008 and 2007: December 31, 2008 Generation (a)(b) ComEd (a) IntercompanyElimination (c) Exelon Current assets $ 521 $ $ (111 ) $ 410 Noncurrent assets 835 (345 ) 490 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,356 (456 ) 900 Current liabilities (214 ) (111 ) 111 (214 ) Noncurrent liabilities (24 ) (345 ) 345 (24 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (238 ) (456 ) 456 (238 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 1,118 $ (456 ) $ $ 662 (a) Includes current and noncurrent asset for Generation and current and noncurrent liability for ComEd of $111 million and $345 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. (b) As of December 31, 2008, collateral of $177 million, $252 million, $274 million and $50 million are netted against current and noncurrent assets and current and noncurrent liabilities, respectively. The total cash collateral received was $753 million at December 31, 2008. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. December 31, 2007 Generation (a)(b) ComEd (a) IntercompanyElimination (c) Exelon Current assets $ 247 $ 13 $ (13 ) $ 247 Noncurrent assets 51 443 (443 ) 51 Total mark to market energy contract assets 298 456 (456 ) 298 Current liabilities (247 ) 13 (234 ) Noncurrent liabilities (741 ) 443 (298 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (988 ) 456 (532 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (690 ) $ 456 $ $ (234 ) (a) Includes current and noncurrent liability for Generation and current and noncurrent asset for ComEd of $13 million and $443 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. (b) As of December 31, 2007, collateral of $104 million, $23 million, $63 million and $82 million are netted against current and noncurrent assets and current and noncurrent liabilities, respectively. The total cash collateral posted net of cash collateral received was $272 million at December 31, 2007. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets, which are primarily option contracts, represents contracts for which external valuations are not available. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2008 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation and ComEd hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price 165 quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from the swap between Generation and ComEd, energy marketing, trading activities and such variations could be material. The following tables, which present maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market asset or (liability). Second, the tables provide the maturity, by year, of the Registrants net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Exelon Maturities Within Total FairValue 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 419 $ 208 $ 98 $ 3 $ 3 $ $ 731 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 1 4 5 10 Total $ 420 $ 208 $ 102 $ 8 $ 3 $ $ 741 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ 12 $ $ $ $ $ $ 12 Prices provided by external sources (324 ) 51 86 (187 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 87 (6 ) 6 4 3 2 96 Total $ (225 ) $ 45 92 4 $ 3 $ 2 $ (79 ) (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Excludes $456 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 419 $ 208 $ 98 $ 3 $ 3 $ $ 731 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 112 165 118 59 12 466 Total $ 531 $ 373 $ 216 $ 62 $ 15 $ $ 1,197 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ 12 $ $ $ $ $ $ 12 Prices provided by external sources (324 ) 51 86 (187 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 87 (6 ) 6 4 3 2 96 Total $ (225 ) $ 45 92 4 $ 3 $ 2 $ (79 ) 166 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Includes $456 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. ComEd Maturities Within Total Fair Value 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (111 ) $ (165 ) $ (114 ) $ (54 ) $ (12 ) $ (456 ) (a) Represents ComEds net liabilities associated with the five year financial swap with Generation. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity Net of Income Tax Generation (a) ComEd Exelon Energy RelatedHedges Energy RelatedHedges Energy RelatedHedges Accumulated OCI derivative gain (loss) at January 1, 2007 $ 247 $ (4 ) $ 243 Effective portion of changes in fair value (786 )(b) 1 (507 ) Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income (9 ) 3 (6 ) Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2007 $ (548 )(a) $ $ (270 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value 1,075 (b) 541 Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income 328 (c) 314 Accumulated OCI derivative gain at December 31, 2008 $ 855 (a) $ $ 585 (a) Includes $275 million gain and $275 million loss, net of taxes, related to the fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for 2008 and 2007, respectively. (b) Includes $535 million gain and $275 million loss, net of taxes, of the effective portion of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (c) Includes $15 million gain, net of taxes, of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income related to the settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the year ended December 31, 2008. 167 Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation Generations PPA with ComEd expired at the end of 2006. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren electricity supply auctions. Beginning in 2007 and as a result of the auctions, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Generation participated in the 2008 ComEd RFP procurement process and will continue to have credit risk in connection with contracts for sale of electricity resulting from the alternative competitive procurement process. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment; therefore, Generations credit risk profile has changed based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. For additional information on the Illinois auction and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation enters into enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with its counterparties, which reduces Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. Typically, each enabling agreement is for a specific commodity and so, with respect to each individual counterparty, netting is limited to transactions involving that specific commodity product, except where master netting agreements exist with a counterparty that allows for cross product netting. In addition to payment netting language in the enabling agreement, the credit department establishes margining thresholds and collateral requirements for each counterparty, which are defined in each contract. Counterparty credit limits are based on an internal credit review that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. To the extent that a counterpartys margining thresholds are exceeded, the counterparty is required to post collateral with Generation as specified in each enabling agreement. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. See the Collateral section below for additional information. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2008. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs), Independent System Operators (ISOs) and New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) and Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include receivables of $159 million and $126 million, respectively, related to the supplier forward agreement with ComEd and the PPA with PECO. Rating as of December 31, 2008 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,553 $ 440 $ 1,113 1 $ 205 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 6 6 Internally rated non investment grade 29 8 21 Total $ 1,593 $ 450 $ 1,143 1 $ 205 168 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2008 Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,116 $ 437 $ $ 1,553 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 6 6 Internally rated non investment grade 21 8 29 Total $ 1,148 $ 445 $ $ 1,593 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As of December 31, 2008 Financial institutions $ 383 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 709 Coal 14 Other 37 Total $ 1,143 ComEd Due to the expiration of ComEds PPA with Generation on December 31, 2006, ComEd began procuring power from multiple suppliers, including Generation. The power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on the price of energy in the spot market compared to the contracted price with each supplier. If the price of energy in the spot market exceeds the contract price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd did not have any credit exposure to suppliers, as the price of energy in the spot market did not exceed the contract prices with suppliers. PECO PECO has a PPA with Generation under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources at fixed prices that are currently below current market prices. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues earned from customers as specified by PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. As noted under Item 1A. Risk Factors, PECO could be negatively impacted if Generation could not perform under the PPA. For PECOs natural gas supply contracts, no disclosure is necessary for the year ended December 31, 2008 because PECO has no price exposure as the fixed contract obligation costs are greater than projected market prices. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral 169 requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Exelon depends on access to bank credit lines which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. Since the banking industry issues started to surface in mid 2007, credit markets have tightened. Exelon will be required to renew most of its credit facilities in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cost and availability to renew may be substantially different than when Exelon originally negotiated the existing liquidity facilities. Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, neither ComEd nor Ameren is required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation may be required to post collateral once certain credit limits are exceeded. Under the terms of the 5 year financial swap contract with ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, the swap contract also provides that: (1) if ComEd is upgraded to investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or Standard & Poors and then is later downgraded below investment grade, or (2) if Generation is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or Standard & Poors, collateral postings would be required by the applicable party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. As of December 31, 2008, there was no cash collateral or letters of credit posted between any suppliers, including Generation, and ComEd associated with the supplier forward contracts. As of March 19, 2008, ComEd was upgraded to investment grade by Standard & Poors, and therefore, the above condition has been satisfied such that if ComEd is later downgraded, it could be subject to margining depending on market prices at that time. Under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation under the swap contract. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Generation participated in the 2008 ComEd RFP procurement process. Under the terms of the RFP, collateral postings are required of both ComEd and the counterparty supplier, including Generation, should exposures between market prices and contracted prices exceed established thresholds outlined in the agreement. As stipulated in the Illinois legislation as well as the ICC approved procurement tariff, ComEd is permitted to recover its costs of procuring power and energy plus any prudent costs that a utility incurs in arranging and providing for the supply of electric power and energy. Thus all costs associated with collateral postings are recoverable from retail customers through ComEds procurement tariff. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. As of December 31, 2008, Generation was holding $758 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties, of which $753 million was offset against mark to market assets and liabilities, in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. PECO does not obtain collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply agreements. 170 RTOs and ISOs. Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions. Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse acts as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. Generation and PECO Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 60% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2009 through 2013 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. PECO procures natural gas from suppliers under both short term and long term contracts. PECOs natural gas procurement plan is reviewed and approved annually on a prospective basis by the PAPUC. PECOs counterparty credit risk under its natural gas supply agreements is mitigated by its ability to recover its natural gas costs through the PAPUC purchased gas cost clause that allows PECO to adjust rates to reflect realized natural gas prices. ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will continue to monitor the impact of the power prices on its customer payment practices as it relates to its provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd and PECO will continue to monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. The Illinois Settlement Legislation (discussed in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to 171 nonpayment between December 1 of any year and March 1 of the following year. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. ComEd and PECO will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts could be affected by changes in future prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. ComEd and PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of their revenues as of December 31, 2008. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2008, included a $577 million net investment in direct financing leases. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $915 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2008, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. As of December 31, 2008, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in $1.4 million, $1.2 million and less than $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds, respectively, pre tax earnings. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2008, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the values of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $247 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. Exelon and Generation maintain trust assets associated with defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 172 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 173 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 174 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2008, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $952 million. In the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a new letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement for certain tax exempt pollution control revenue bonds, which are secured by First Mortgage Bonds. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2008, 2007 or 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 175 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 176 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2008, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 177 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 178 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon is a utility services holding company. It operates through subsidiaries in the following operating segments: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail supply operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Exelons corporate operations, some of which are performed through its business services subsidiary, Exelon Business Services Company, LLC (BSC), provide Exelons business segments with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $2,737 million in 2008 as compared to $2,736 million in 2007 and diluted earnings per average common share were $4.13 for 2008 as compared to $4.05 for 2007. The following factors contributed to an increase in net income: higher average realized margins at Generation; net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities; increased transmission and delivery service revenue at ComEd in 2008 resulting from the 2007 transmission and distribution rate cases; the impact of the decreased charges in 2008 associated with the 2007 Illinois Settlement; and a 2007 loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska Offsetting these factors above are the following decreases in net income: net unrealized and realized losses on Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to the former AmerGen nuclear generating units and the unregulated portions of the Peach Bottom nuclear generating units (Unregulated Units); 77 increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense; income associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities in 2007; and the impact of the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in 2007. See Exelon Corporation Results of Operations for further information regarding the changes in net income. Economic Environment. As the economic environment has worsened, the Registrants have performed additional assessments to determine the impact, if any, of recent market developments, including the bankruptcy, restructuring or merging of certain financial and energy companies, on the Registrants financial statements. The Registrants additional assessments have included a review of macroeconomic conditions, access to liquidity in the capital and credit markets, counterparty creditworthiness, value of the Registrants investments (particularly in the employee benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust funds) and exposure to other risks. The recent unprecedented volatility in the economy may create additional risks in the upcoming months and possibly years. Macroeconomic conditions U.S. and global economic conditions worsened significantly in the last quarter of 2008. The stress caused to international credit markets, initially driven in large part by the devaluation of risky U.S. subprime debt, led to a dramatic tightening in liquidity. The U.S. government has responded with several initiatives to alleviate the strain on the financial markets. While these programs have had some positive effects on financial systems, credit remains tight and economic conditions in the U.S. and globally have continued to deteriorate. The slowdown, initially led by housing declines in specific regional markets, has spread to encompass almost the entire U.S. economy. Both industrial production and consumer spending have fallen sharply in the last half of 2008, while the U.S. unemployment rate has increased. As a result of the decline in economic output, energy demand in ComEds and PECOs service territories is lower, which has led to reduced sales to industrial, commercial and residential customers. Lower demand for electricity may also lead to lower margins for Exelons wholesale fleet, although this effect will be mitigated in the short term by Exelons hedging policies. In addition, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of their utility bills. Management has taken steps to mitigate this risk through heightened collection efforts. In addition, the world slowdown in economic activity has reduced demand for oil, coal and natural gas, and has led to sharply falling commodity prices. By the end of 2008, Eastern coal, oil and gas were trading at less than half of their prices at the summer peak. As a result, wholesale electricity prices in the U.S. have fallen. Due to Exelons hedging policies, as described in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, it has had limited exposure to lower power prices in the short term; however, prolonged lower commodity prices would adversely impact Exelons results of operations in the future. Liquidity in the capital and credit markets The Registrants believe they have sufficient liquidity despite the disruption of the capital and credit markets. The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flow from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large, diversified credit facilities ($7.3 billion in aggregate total commitments with $6.9 billion available as of December 31, 2008, of which no financial institution, assuming announced consolidations, has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation and PECO and 12% for ComEd). Generation and ComEd also have additional letter of 78 credit facilities used solely to enhance tax exempt variable rate debt. Certain of these letters of credit will expire in 2009 ($311 million and $194 million at Generation and ComEd, respectively), which the Registrants plan to extend or substitute. See Variable Rate Debt within Liquidity and Capital Resources for further detail on these credit facilities. While not significant to the Registrants to date, the disruptions in capital and credit markets may result in increased borrowing costs associated with short term and long term debt. The Registrants accelerated a number of bond issuances in 2008 in order to limit the risk of volatility in the credit markets and to enhance liquidity. As more fully discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, the Registrants completed all their long term financings planned for 2008. With the exception of debt to unconsolidated financing affiliates, the Registrants have $29 million of debt maturing in 2009 ($12 million and $17 million at Generation and ComEd, respectively) and $613 million of debt maturing in 2010 ($400 million and $213 million at Exelon Corporate and ComEd, respectively). The debt to unconsolidated financing affiliates at PECO is repaid through the collection of competitive transition charges from customers as allowed by restructuring legislation that was adopted in Pennsylvania in 1996. The Registrants routinely review liquidity sufficiency, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. Management continues to closely monitor events and the financial institutions associated with its credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the effects of a longer term disruption in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. Counterparty creditworthiness The Registrants are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations or the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. Generations power marketing activities are governed by risk management policies limiting transactions to a diversified group of high quality counterparties. During 2008, the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the weakening of companies within the energy industry have underscored the importance of these risk management practices. Although Generations credit exposure was predominately with investment grade companies at December 31, 2008, changes in forward market prices could have a disproportionate impact to the percentage of credit exposure with non investment grade companies. As of December 31, 2008, the net exposure after credit collateral for Generations commodity contracts of $1,143 million included $1,119 million of exposure to investment grade companies and $24 million of exposure to non investment grade companies, primarily in the coal supply industry. As a result of managements review of Generations counterparties, the direct net exposure of $22 million to Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc., a counterparty in wholesale energy marketing transactions, was fully reserved and charged to expense in the third quarter of 2008. As further discussed below, Generation also currently procures uranium concentrates through long term contracts. Approximately 60% of the requirements from 2009 through 2013 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Management continues to closely monitor the status of Generations counterparties and will take action, as appropriate, to further manage its counterparty credit risk. Under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, ComEd procures power through supplier forward contracts, standard block energy purchases, and spot market purchases. Collateral postings are required only of suppliers for the supplier forward contracts that ComEd entered into with winning 79 suppliers from the Illinois auction, including Generation. The standard block energy purchases require collateral postings from both ComEd and the counterparty suppliers, including Generation, should exposures between forward market prices and benchmark price levels exceed established unsecured credit limits outlined in the agreements. In the event the counterparties fail to perform, ComEd might be forced to purchase power through an RFP process or in the spot markets at less favorable prices. As of December 31, 2008, there was no cash collateral or letters of credit posted between suppliers and ComEd. The potential failure of energy suppliers to perform is mitigated by ComEds ability to recover its actual costs to procure power as stipulated in the Illinois Settlement Legislation as well as the ICC approved procurement tariff. PECO has counterparty credit risk related to its electricity and natural gas suppliers. Generation provides 100% of PECOs electric energy under a purchase power agreement (PPA). There are no collateral posting provisions included in PECOs electric supply agreement with Generation. PECO procures natural gas from suppliers under both short term and long term contracts. The potential failure of natural gas suppliers to perform is mitigated by PECOs ability to seek recovery of its actual costs to procure natural gas through the PAPUCs purchased gas cost clause, subject to PAPUC review. A further discussion of counterparty risk is included in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Value of investments (particularly in employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trust funds) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for the employees of the Registrants. The Registrants believe that the oversight of the investments held under Exelons employee benefit plans is rigorous and that the investment strategies are prudent. The market value of the investments within the employee benefit plan trusts declined by approximately 26% during the year ended December 31, 2008. The benefit plan assets and obligations of Exelon and AmerGen are remeasured annually using a December 31 measurement date. Reductions in plan assets from investment losses during 2008 was a significant driver contributing to an increase of approximately $3.9 billion to the plans unfunded status upon actuarial revaluation of the plan on December 31, 2008. Changes in the value of plan assets did not have an impact on the income statement for 2008; however, the change in value resulted in an after tax reduction of shareholders equity of approximately $1.5 billion. Reduced benefit plan assets are expected to result in increased benefit costs and required funding contributions in future years. Such increases could be material to 2009 and subsequent years. Exelon estimates that pension and other postretirement benefits expense will total approximately $425 million in 2009 as compared to approximately $240 million in 2008. See Critical Accounting Policies for additional information regarding the potential impacts of declines in the return on benefit plan assets that is less than assumed and Liquidity and Capital Resources for information regarding future funding requirements. Nuclear decommissioning trust funds have been established on a unit by unit basis to satisfy Generations nuclear decommissioning obligations. Currently, Generation is making contributions only to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds) with respect to the former PECO units, it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers for the former ComEd units or from the previous owners of the AmerGen plants, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. Generation believes that its oversight of these trust funds is rigorous and the investment strategy is prudent. At December 31, 2008, approximately 39% of the funds were invested in equity and 61% were invested in fixed income securities, with limitations related to concentration and investment grade ratings. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the amounts of unrealized losses on the trust funds during the year ended December 31, 2008. 80 Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels. Depending on the value of the trust funds, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Exelons and Generations cash flows and financial positions may be significantly adversely affected. Generations next report to the NRC is due on March 31, 2009, based on trust fund values and estimated decommissioning obligations as of December 31, 2008. Based on these values, six units at three nuclear generating stations were in an underfunded position by approximately $185 million in total at December 31, 2008, relative to the NRC minimum funding requirements. Exelon and Generation currently are evaluating the remedy that will be used to address the underfunded status. See PART I. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the effects of a longer term disruption in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. Based on a regulatory agreement with the ICC that applies to the former ComEd nuclear generating units on a unit by unit basis, as long as funds held in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds exceed the total estimated decommissioning obligation, decommissioning impacts recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations, including realized and unrealized income and losses of the trust funds and accretion of the decommissioning obligation, are generally offset within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Statements of Operations. Should the trust funds for the former ComEd units continue to experience declines in market value such that the value of the trust funds for any unit falls below the amount of the estimated decommissioning obligation for that unit, the accounting to offset decommissioning impacts in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for that unit would be discontinued, the decommissioning impacts would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and the adverse impact to Exelons and Generations results of operations and financial positions could be material. At December 31, 2008, the trust fund investment values for each of the former ComEd units exceeded the related decommissioning obligation for each of the units. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the former ComEd nuclear generating units as a result of the ICC order. The Registrants engage in a securities lending program with respect to the investments within their employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trust funds. In connection with this program, the securities loaned are supported by collateral posted by the borrowers, which the Registrants invest in a short term collateral fund or in assets with maturities matching, or approximating, the duration of the loan of the related securities. The Registrants bear the risk of loss with respect to their invested cash collateral. Such losses may result from a decline in fair value of specific investments or due to liquidity impairments resulting from current market conditions. Losses recognized by the Registrants have not been significant to date. Exelon has invested collateral of $660 million as of December 31, 2008. Management continues to monitor the performance of the invested collateral and to work closely with the trustees to limit any potential further losses. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Registrants decided to end their participation in the securities lending program and have chosen to initiate a gradual withdrawal of their participation in the securities lending program in order to avoid potential losses on invested cash collateral due to the lack of liquidity in the market. Currently, the weighted average maturity of the securities within the collateral pools is approximately 7.5 months. Exelons withdrawal from the securities lending program based on the maturities of securities within the collateral pools is expected to result in the return of approximately 70% of its loaned securities (in terms of value) by the end of 2009, 94% by the end of 2010 and the return of the remaining securities by the end of 2011. 81 Value of other assets In the fourth quarter of 2008, ComEd assessed its goodwill for impairment and the analysis indicated that there was no impairment. However, the recent economic downturn and the capital and credit market crisis have impacted the market related assumptions, resulting in a significant decrease in the estimated fair value of ComEd since the November 1, 2007 assessment. Further declines could result in an impairment and such a charge could be material. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the goodwill impairment analysis. Generation regularly evaluates the economic viability of its generating plants. Generations plants continue to be economically viable, and Generations review indicated there was no impairment as of December 31, 2008 under a held and used model. See Outlook for 2009 and Beyond Proposal for acquisition of NRG for discussion of Generations evaluation of its Texas generating plants for impairment in connection with the potential divestiture of these plants as a result of Exelons proposed acquisition of NRG. Other risks The Registrants have reviewed their exposure to insurance risk and have concluded that there have been no material changes related to the availability and cost of liability, property, nuclear risk, and other forms of insurance. Management continues to monitor closely events and the ratings for insurance companies associated with its insurance programs. Further declines in the market may have a significant adverse impact on the availability and cost of insurance. Regulatory and Environmental Developments. The following significant regulatory and environmental developments occurred during 2008. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelon Exelon surpassed its U.S. EPA Voluntary Climate Leaders goal announced on May 5, 2005 to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. The GHG management efforts undertaken in support of the goal, including the previous closure of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and its current energy efficiency initiatives, yielded greater than expected reductions. Exelon is in the process of having its GHG reductions verified by a third party and endorsed by U.S. EPA. While Exelon met its goal, on July 15, 2008, Exelon announced a new longer term comprehensive environmental plan, Exelon 2020. ComEd Delivery Service Rate Case On September 10, 2008, the ICC issued its final order in ComEds rate case proceeding that was initiated in October 2007. The order approved an increase in the annual revenue requirement of $274 million, which became effective on September 16, 2008. Transmission Rate Case On January 16, 2008, FERC approved an annual transmission network service revenue requirement for ComEd of approximately $390 million, effective May 1, 2007. The revenue requirement represented an increase of approximately $93 million and was based on a newly approved formula rate model. On May 15, 2008, ComEd filed its first annual formula update filing, which updates ComEds formula rate to include actual 2007 expenses and capital additions plus forecasted 2008 capital additions. The update resulted in a revenue requirement of $430 million, plus an additional $26 million related to the 2007 true up of actual costs for a total increase of approximately $66 million, which became effective for the period June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2009. 82 PECO Gas Distribution Rate Case During 2008, PECO filed a petition before the PAPUC for a $98 million rate increase. On October 23, 2008, the PAPUC approved a settlement of a distribution rate increase that provides for an annual revenue increase of $77 million. The approved distribution rate adjustment became effective on January 1, 2009. PECO AEPS Filing In August 2008, PECO entered into a five year agreement with an accepted bidder to purchase AECs from the March 2008 RFP. PECO launched its second RFP in November 2008 and anticipates entering into fixed price, five year agreements by March 2009, with purchases beginning no later than December 31, 2009. PECO Default Service Filing On November 14, 2008, PECO amended its comprehensive Default Service Program and Rate Mitigation Plan with the PAPUC relating to its plan to provide default electric service following the expiration of rate caps on December 31, 2010. The purpose of the amendment was to address the requirements of Act 129 of 2008 (Act 129), which was signed into law in October 2008. PECO has withdrawn its Energy Efficiency Package and will revise its energy efficiency programs consistent with the new requirements of Act 129. The PAPUC will conduct a formal proceeding to give all interested parties the opportunity to examine aspects of the amended filing and make independent recommendations. The process is expected to be completed by July 2009. Outlook for 2009 and Beyond. Several significant events may occur during the rest of 2009 and beyond, including the following: Proposal for acquisition of NRG On October 19, 2008, with authorization from Exelons Board of Directors, Exelon submitted a proposal to NRG to enter into a business combination with NRG under which Exelon would exchange 0.485 of a share of Exelon common stock for each share of NRG common stock. On November 12, 2008, Exelon announced an exchange offer in which Exelon, through its wholly owned subsidiary Exelon Xchange, offered to acquire all of the outstanding NRG common stock in exchange for 0.485 of a share of Exelon common stock plus cash in lieu of fractional shares, representing a total equity value of approximately $6.2 billion for NRG based on Exelons closing price on October 17, 2008. On January 7, 2009, Exelon announced that the initial expiration of the offer on January 6, 2009, NRG shareholders had tendered approximately 106 million shares of common stock of NRG, representing just over 45.6% of all outstanding shares of NRG common stock, and Exelon was extending the expiration date of the exchange offer until 5:00 PM New York City Time on February 25, 2009 unless further extended. Exelon is taking steps to obtain the regulatory approvals required for the proposed acquisition of NRG. NRG rejected Exelons initial offer and remains opposed to Exelons exchange offer. See PART I ITEM 1. Business for further information. As part of its FERC filing related to the NRG offer to address potential market power concerns, Exelon proposed to divest its three facilities in Texas Mountain Creek, Handley and LaPorte totaling approximately 2,400 MW of capacity. The plans also include transferring to a third party Exelons power purchase agreements in Texas totaling approximately 1,200 MW of capacity. In addition, the combined company would divest approximately 1,000 MW of capacity in the PJM East market, including plants currently owned by NRG. Exelon does not believe there are any other generation overlap issues related to the proposed combination. In connection with the decline in current market conditions and the potential divestiture of the Texas plants proposed in its December 2008 FERC filing, Generation evaluated its Texas plants for potential impairment as of December 31, 2008 pursuant to SFAS No. 144. The impairment evaluation was performed to assess whether the carrying values of the plants were 83 not recoverable. Although energy market conditions have deteriorated since mid 2008, in part reflecting lower commodity prices, which could have an adverse impact on the potential sales price of these plants; Generations evaluation indicated that the estimated undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying values of the plants and an impairment did not exist as of December 31, 2008 under the held and used model of SFAS No. 144. As Exelon continues its efforts to acquire NRG, Generation will continue to evaluate its Texas plants for impairment, taking into account current energy market conditions, the likelihood and timing of the divestiture of these plants and the potential sales proceeds that might be obtained. Should current market conditions further decline or the likelihood of divestiture increase, an impairment may be triggered and any potential impairment of its Texas plants could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations in the period in which the impairment is recorded. Pennsylvania Transition Legislation PECO is subject to caps on its electric generation rates through December 31, 2010 in connection with its PPA with Generation. In Pennsylvania, despite the decrease during 2008 in wholesale electricity market prices, legislators and regulators have still expressed concern regarding the rate increases expected in the transition to market based retail electric generation rates. Although recently enacted Act 129 provides guidelines associated with electricity procurement that support competitive, market based procurement, elected officials have suggested rate cap extensions, rate increase deferrals and phase ins, a generation tax and contributions of value (potentially billions of dollars statewide) by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs that could have a significant impact on PECO and Generation. Act 129 requires that Pennsylvania electric utility companies meet energy conservation and demand reduction targets, beginning in 2011, to enhance the Commonwealths energy independence and enable programs to help consumers manage their energy use. In 2009, PECO will file plans with the PAPUC to meet these energy efficiency and demand response goals. Also, PECO will be required to transition its electric customers to smart meter technology over a fifteen year period and to make available time of use rates and real time price plans. The legislation allows recovery of costs for each of these programs, subject to approval by the PAPUC. Presidential Administration Due to the new Democratic Administration and increased Democratic majorities in the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate, there is a stronger likelihood that legislation related to energy, environmental and tax policy will be enacted in the foreseeable future. These changes may include, but are not limited to, legislation or regulation limiting GHG emissions; changing corporate tax law; a higher tax on dividend income; the Federal imposition of a renewable energy portfolio standard; and incentives for investments in transmission, smart grid deployment, energy efficiency and renewable generation. Exelon continuously evaluates the potential impact of proposed public policy changes which may impact the Registrants either favorably or unfavorably. New Growth Opportunities Generation pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize shareholder value, taking earnings, cash flow and financial risk into account. On September 2, 2008, Generation submitted a combined COL application to the NRC seeking authorization to build and operate a new dual unit nuclear generating facility in 84 Victoria County in southeast Texas. In addition, Generation filed Part I and Part II of a loan guarantee application with the Department of Energy (DOE) for these potential new units on September 26, 2008 and December 18, 2008, respectively. The COL application preserves for Exelon and Generation the option to develop a new nuclear plant in Texas without immediately committing to the full project. In order to continue preserving and assessing this option, Exelon and Generation have approved expenditures on the project of up to $100 million, which includes fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments and other costs for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. Amounts spent on the project to date have been expensed. The development phase of the project is expected to extend into 2009, with approval of funding beyond the $100 million commitment subject to management review and board approval. Generation has not made a decision to build a new nuclear plant at this time. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision to build is made by Generation are the successful granting of the COL by the NRC; significant progress to resolve questions around the short term interim and long term permanent storage, as well as potential future recycling, of spent nuclear fuel; broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant; and assurances that a new plant can be financially successful, which would entail economic analysis that would incorporate assessing construction and financing costs, including the availability of sufficient financing, production and other potential tax credits, and other key economic factors. However, the decision to build the new nuclear plant depends, in large part, upon financial support under the DOE loan guarantee program. At this time, there is considerable uncertainty about the likelihood of DOE financial support for the project due to the limited appropriations available to DOE for this purpose and the number of projects competing for those limited resources. On May 1, 2008, Generation announced that it is actively pursuing the development of a 600 megawatt combined cycle natural gas power plant in Pennsylvania. The new plant would advance Exelons efforts to combat carbon emissions associated with electricity generation. Generation has been looking at several existing plant sites that it owns with access to the transmission lines, water and fuel needed to operate a new power plant. Generation has stated that a final decision on whether to move forward would be made only after it had more certainty around environmental permitting and had performed a more detailed economic review. Generation will continue to study the development of the project but will not make material investments or pursue permits until general market conditions have improved the estimated economic returns of the project. Amounts spent on the project to date, which are not material, have been expensed. Illinois Settlement Legislation The legislation reflecting the agreement that ComEd, Generation and other generators and utilities in Illinois reached with various representatives from the State of Illinois (Illinois Settlement Legislation) is expected to provide ComEd with greater stability and certainty that it will be able to procure electricity and pass through the costs of that electricity to its customers with less risk that rate freeze or other harmful legislation will be pursued in the near term. As stipulated in the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA, under the oversight of the ICC, is responsible for all procurement plans for annual delivery periods starting in June 2009 and thereafter. ComEd has stabilized a portion of its costs of procurement pursuant to the five year financial swap contract with Generation. ComEd will be allowed to fully recover the costs of procuring energy, including the impacts of the financial swap contract, in its rates as it was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation. In the event that legislation is enacted in the Illinois General Assembly prior to August 1, 2011 that freezes or reduces electric rates or imposes a generation tax, the Illinois Settlement Legislation permits ComEd and Generation, as contributors to certain rate relief programs, to terminate their funding commitments to such programs. 85 Cost Savings Exelon anticipates that it will be subject to the ongoing pressures of rising operating expenses due to increases in costs, such as medical benefits and rising payroll costs due to inflation. Also, Exelon will continue to incur significant capital costs associated with its commitment to produce and deliver energy reliably to its customers. Increasing capital costs may include the price of uranium, which fuels the nuclear facilities, and continued capital investment in Exelons aging distribution infrastructure and generating facilities. Exelon is determined to operate its businesses responsibly and to appropriately manage its operating and capital costs while serving its customers and producing value for its shareholders. In 2009, Exelon will realize cost savings through sustainable productivity improvements. This effort will include the evaluation of Exelons governance model to ensure its corporate cost structure is optimal in supporting the operating companies. In addition, Exelon will implement more rigorous planning and performance measurement tools that allow it to better identify areas for productivity improvement across the operating companies and to measure progress against plan. Competitive Markets In general, market prices for energy have increased over the past number of years due to the rise in natural gas and other fuel prices. As a result, PECO customers generation rates generally have been below wholesale energy market prices in PJM, and Generations margins on sales in excess of PECOs requirements generally have been higher during this time. Given its significance to Generation, the expiration at the end of 2010 of the current PPA with PECO could result in significant changes in margins earned by Generation beginning in 2011. Any increase or decrease in margin as a result of entering into new power supply contracts backed by the generation capacity previously committed to PECO will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, energy demand and the outcome of Pennsylvania transition legislation. See Pennsylvania Transition Legislation above for more information. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2009 and 2010. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has estimated greater than 95% and 90% for economic and cash flow hedge ratios for 2009 and 2010, respectively, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This financial hedge ratio is the estimate of the gross margin that is hedged given the current assessment of market volatility. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years as well. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates and through long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. Generation procures coal primarily through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 60% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2009 through 2013 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these 86 or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Environmental Matters On July 15, 2008, Exelon announced a new longer term comprehensive environmental plan, Exelon 2020. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for results of Exelons GHG emissions reduction plan and detail on the Exelon 2020 plan. The Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) was promulgated by the EPA in 2005 to reduce power plant emissions of SO2 and NOx. On December 23, 2008, in response to a petition for re hearing of its July 11, 2008 decision to vacate CAIR, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit determined not to vacate the existing CAIR pending issuance of a revised CAIR by the EPA. The Courts decision to allow CAIR to remain in effect will assist eastern states in continuing to improve regional air quality in support of meeting Federal air quality attainment dates. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail on the impact of the vacature of CAIR to Generation. On January 25, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit invalidated compliance measures of the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. These measures were supported by the utility industry because they were cost effective and provided existing plants with needed flexibility in selecting the compliance option appropriate to its location and operations. Several industry parties sought review by the Supreme Court and a decision is expected in the first half of 2009. On July 9, 2007, the EPA formally suspended the Phase II rule due to the uncertainty about the specific compliance requirements created by the courts remand of significant provisions of the rule. Until the EPA finalizes the rule on remand (which could take several years), the state permitting agencies will continue the current practice of applying their best professional judgment to address impingement and entrainment requirements at plant cooling water intake structures. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail on the impact of this rule to Generation. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon may incur costs in limiting further the GHG emissions from its operations or in procuring emission allowance credits. However, Exelon may benefit from stricter emission standards due to its significant nuclear and other low carbon capacity, which is not anticipated to be adversely affected by proposed GHG emission standards such as the Clean Air Act. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision in the case of Massachusetts v. U. S. EPA holding that carbon dioxide (CO2) and other GHG emissions are pollutants subject to regulation under the new motor vehicle provisions of the Clean Air Act. The case was remanded to the EPA for further rulemaking, and the possible outcomes from this decision could include regulation of GHG emissions from manufacturing plants, including electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities. See PART I Item 1. Business for further discussion. 87 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (ARO) (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143). SFAS No. 143 requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model which considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies on a unit by unit basis to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, low level radioactive waste disposal and other costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternatives and timing scenarios on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% (high cost scenario) or minus 15% (low cost scenario) over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a low level radioactive waste landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a 20 year delay) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel for disposal, which Generation currently estimates to begin in 2020. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting spent nuclear fuel, see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 88 Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2008 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 273 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 97 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 133 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 220 If the estimated date for DOE acceptance of spent nuclear fuel were to be extended to 2025, Generations aggregate nuclear decommissioning obligation would be reduced by an immaterial amount. Under SFAS No. 143, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to either the timing or estimated amount of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding the application of SFAS No. 143, see Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments (Exelon and Generation) The trust fund investments have been established to satisfy Exelons and Generations nuclear decommissioning obligations. The nuclear decommissioning trust funds hold debt and equity securities directly and indirectly through commingled funds. Generations investment policies place limitations on the types and investment grade ratings of the securities that may be held by the trusts. These policies restrict the trust funds from holding alternative investments and limit the trust funds exposures to investments in highly illiquid markets. On January 1, 2008, Generation elected the fair value option under SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159) with respect to these investments; therefore, the investments are carried at fair value with all changes in fair value being recognized through the statement of operations. With respect to individually held equity securities, the trustees obtain prices from pricing services, whose prices are obtained from direct feeds from market exchanges, which Generation is able to independently corroborate. For fixed income securities, the trustees receive multiple prices from pricing services, which enable cross provider validations by the trustees in addition to checks for unusual daily movements. A primary price source is identified based on asset type, class or issue for each security. The trustees monitor prices supplied by pricing services and may use a supplemental price source or change the primary price source of a given security if the trustees challenge an assigned price and determine that another price source is considered to be preferable. Generation has obtained an understanding of how these prices are derived, including the nature and observability of the inputs 89 used in deriving such prices. Additionally, Generation selectively corroborates the fair values of securities by comparison to other market based price sources. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), Generation categorizes these investments under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Investments with maturities of the three months or less when purchased are considered cash equivalents and included in the recurring fair value measurements hierarchy as Level 1 or Level 2. The fair values of equity securities held directly by the trust funds are based on quoted prices in active markets and are categorized in Level 1. Equity securities held individually are primarily traded on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ Global Select Market, which contain all actively traded securities due to the volume trading requirements imposed by these exchanges. In addition, U.S. Treasury securities are categorized as Level 1 because they trade in a highly liquid and transparent market. The fair values of fixed income securities, excluding U.S. Treasury securities, are based on evaluated prices that reflect observable market information, such as actual trade information of similar securities, adjusted for observable differences and are categorized in Level 2. To draw parallels from the trading and quoting of fixed income securities with similar features, pricing services consider various characteristics including the issuer, vintage, purpose of loan, collateral attributes, prepayment speeds, interest rates and credit ratings in order to properly value these securities. Commingled funds, which are analogous to mutual funds, are maintained by investment companies and hold certain investments in accordance with a stated set of fund objectives. Short term commingled funds held within the trust funds, which generally hold short term fixed income securities, are categorized as Level 2 as the fair values of these funds are derived from observable prices, and these funds are not subject to restrictions regarding the purchase or sale of shares. The objectives of the remaining commingled funds in which Exelon and Generation invest primarily seek to track the performance of specific equity indices, specifically the Standard & Poors (S&P) 500, the Russell 3000 and the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE indices, by purchasing equity securities to replicate the capitalization and characteristics of the indices. The fair value of these commingled funds primarily are based on net asset values per fund share (the unit of account), derived from the quoted prices in active markets of the underlying equity securities. However, because the shares of these commingled funds are not publicly quoted, not traded in an active market and are subject to certain restrictions regarding their purchase and sale, the commingled funds are categorized in Level 3. See Notes 8 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill which relates to the acquisition of ComEd under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 142, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. In general, fair value increases to assets and or fair value decreases to liabilities would increase the size of any impairment. For example, a decrease in the fair value of ComEds debt would increase the size of any impairment and vice versa. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets, liabilities and 90 goodwill to reporting units, and determining the fair value of the reporting unit. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In the assessment, Exelon and ComEd estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a probability weighted, expected cash flow model with scenarios reflecting potential outcomes of future regulatory filings and managements associated plans, and a resulting range of operating results and cash flows. The model includes an estimate of ComEds terminal value based on these expected cash flows and on an earnings multiple approach, which reflects the estimated value of comparable utility companies. Other significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit include ComEds capital structure, interest rates, utility sector market performance, operating and capital expenditure requirements, fair value of debt and other factors. This approach, including the comparable utility companies used to determine the earnings multiple, has been consistently applied since the adoption of SFAS No. 142. In addition, ComEd performs alternative market based analyses to corroborate the estimated fair value, including a reconciliation of the sum of the fair value of all Exelon reporting units to its enterprise value based on its trading price. The regulatory environment, such as the September 2008 Rate Order, has provided more certainty related to ComEds future cash flows. However, the recent economic downturn and the capital and credit market crisis have significantly impacted the market related assumptions, resulting in a significant decrease in the estimated fair value of ComEd since the November 1, 2007 assessment. For example, the earnings multiple used to determine the terminal value decreased from 8.6x at November 1, 2007 to 7.5x at November 1, 2008. While ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2008, further deterioration of the market related factors used in the impairment review could result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets are deteriorating business climate, including current energy and market conditions, condition of the asset, or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates a long lived asset is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset over its fair value. An impairment would require the affected Registrant to reduce both the long lived asset and current period earnings by the amount of the impairment. See Note 5 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation, including an evaluation made in connection with Exelons proposed acquisition of NRG. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service 91 lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Changes to depreciation estimates in future periods could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel and hydroelectric generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. The completion of the depreciation study is expected to result in an increase to ComEds annual depreciation expense of approximately $15 million during 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. The impact of the new rates was not material. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees. Employees of Generations former wholly owned subsidiary, AmerGen, participate in a separate AmerGen sponsored defined benefit pension and other postretirement welfare benefit plans. Effective January 8, 2009, the AmerGen legal entity was merged into Generation. At that time, Exelon became the sponsor of all AmerGen pension and postretirement benefit plans. The change in sponsorship did not materially impact the funding or substantive provisions of the AmerGen plans. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under these plans involve various factors, including numerous assumptions and accounting elections. When determining the various assumptions that are required, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The benefit costs are affected by, among other things, the actual rate of return on plan assets, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment crediting rate, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs and the level of benefits provided to employees and retirees. Pension and postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are included with labor costs and ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. 92 Actual asset return experience has a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens pension and postretirement benefit plans. The overall actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2008 were a loss of approximately 26% compared to an assumed 8.75% positive return. This loss of 26% is expected to increase 2009 and 2010 benefit costs as follows: Increase in 2009Pension Cost Increase in 2009PostretirementBenefit Cost Increase in 2010Pension Cost Increase in 2010PostretirementBenefit Cost 2008 negative asset returns of 26% $ 110 $ 99 $ 176 $ 95 This information assumes that movements in asset returns occur absent changes to other actuarial assumptions, and does not consider any actions management may take to mitigate the impact of the asset return shortfalls, such as changes to the amount and timing of future contributions. The actuarial assumptions used in the determination of pension and postretirement benefit costs are interrelated and changes in other assumptions could have the impact of offsetting all or a portion of the potential increase in benefit costs set forth above. In addition, declines in the value of plan assets during 2008 resulted in an increase to the plans unfunded status and a decrease to shareholders equity upon actuarial revaluation of the plan on December 31, 2008, and reduced benefit plan assets may increase the amount and accelerate the timing of required future funding contributions. The pension and postretirement plan trusts investments include debt and equity securities, held directly and through commingled funds, and alternative asset classes. With respect to individually held equity securities, the trustees obtain prices from pricing services, whose prices are obtained from direct feeds from market exchanges. For fixed income securities, the trustees receive multiple prices from pricing services, which enable cross provider validations by the trustees in addition to checks for unusual daily movements. A primary price source is identified based on asset type, class or issue for each security. The trustees monitor prices supplied by pricing services and may use a supplemental price source or change the primary price source of a given security if the trustees challenge an assigned price and determine that another price source is considered to be preferable. Additionally, Exelon selectively corroborates the fair values of securities by comparison to other market based price sources. Commingled funds are valued based on the net asset value of the underlying assets, which are generally equity and fixed income securities. Alternative investments are valued by investment managers, generally using a model based approach. Exelon has obtained an understanding of how these prices are derived, including the nature and observability of the inputs used in deriving such prices. The selection of key actuarial assumptions utilized in the measurement of the plan obligations and costs drives the results of the analysis and the resulting charges. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets (EROA) assumption used in calculating pension cost was 8.75%, 8.75%, and 9.00% for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 7.80%, 7.85%, and 8.15% in 2008, 2007, and 2006 respectively. A lower EROA is used in the calculation of other postretirement benefit costs, as the other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable while the pension trust activity is non taxable. The EROA is based on current asset allocations as described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A change in the asset allocation strategy could significantly impact the EROA and related costs. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the market related value (MRV) of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments that are to be made during the year. SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87) and SFAS No. 106, 93 Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions (SFAS No. 106) allow the MRV of plan assets to be either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. Exelon uses a calculated value when determining the MRV of the pension plan assets that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. This calculated value has the effect of stabilizing variability in assets to which Exelon applies the expected return. Exelon uses fair value when determining the MRV of the other postretirement benefit plan assets and the AmerGen pension plan assets. The discount rate for determining the pension benefit obligations was 6.09%, 6.20%, and 5.90% at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The discount rate for determining the other postretirement benefit obligations was 6.09%, 6.20%, and 5.85% at December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of Aa graded non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end will be used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use a discount rate and EROA of 6.09% and 8.50%, respectively, for estimating its 2009 pension costs. Additionally, Exelon will use a discount rate and expected return on plan assets of 6.09% and 8.10%, respectively, for estimating its 2009 other postretirement benefit costs. The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the major actuarial assumptions discussed above (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onPension Liability atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on2008Pension Cost Impact onPostretirementBenefit Liability atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on 2008PostretirementBenefit Cost Pension benefits Decrease discount rate by 0.5% $ 641 $ 52 $ 212 $ 26 Decrease rate of EROA by 0.5% 48 8 Assumed health care cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons and AmerGens postretirement benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2008 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2008 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefitObligation atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on2008Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Increase assumed health care cost trend by 1% $ 431 $ 49 Decrease assumed health care cost trend by 1% (358 ) (40 ) 94 Extending the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years would have had the following effects on the December 31, 2008 postretirement benefit obligation and estimated 2008 costs (dollars in millions): Change in Actuarial Assumption Impact onOtherPostretirementBenefit Obligation atDecember 31, 2008 Impact on2008Total ServiceandInterest CostComponents Extend the year at which the ultimate health care trend rate of 5% is forecasted to be reached by 5 years $ 145 $ 19 The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. As these assumptions change from period to period, recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts and funding requirements could also change. As allowed by SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106, the impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs, and certain of its actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs over participants average remaining service period related to eligibility age, and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of defined pension plan participants was 12.8 years, 13.0 years and 13.5 years for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 6.9 years, 6.9 years, and 7.3 years for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.4 years, 9.7 years and 10.3 years for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with SFAS No. 71, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for future recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues collected from customers in excess of prescribed recovery that must be refunded to customers through an adjustment of billing rates. Use of SFAS No. 71 is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable assumption that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of SFAS No. 71, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of those operations, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 would be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. If ComEd no longer met the criteria of SFAS No. 71, the impact on ComEds capital structure could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain which would be recorded in the event ComEd reversed its net regulatory liability 95 position. A write off of regulatory assets and liabilities could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 3, 7 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments and recent rate orders, including for other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS No. 5), as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that will ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of the appropriate regulatory process. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant experience with regulatory bodies, known circumstances specific to a particular matter, discussions held with the applicable regulatory body, and other factors. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual events, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases, and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a five year financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. In addition, Generation and PECO have entered into a long term full requirements power purchase agreement under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities, as Amended (SFAS No. 133) and related interpretations. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under SFAS No. 133 requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133 continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 133, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium do not meet the definition of a derivative under SFAS No. 133 since they do not provide for net settlement and the uranium markets are not sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium markets do become 96 sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases or normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the cost or value of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period. Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases or normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Normal purchases and sales are contracts where physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time, and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under SFAS No. 133, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases or normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of the initial ComEd procurement auction and the subsequent RFP process, and all of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives, qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase or normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in counterparty credit and book outs (financial settlements). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable, and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a 97 regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of SFAS No. 133, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives are valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges and, are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. Generation reviews and corroborates the price quotations to ensure the prices are observable which includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. Generations non exchange based derivatives are predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, including assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, Generation considers the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the model inputs generally are not observable. Generation considers credit and nonperformance risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of credit and nonperformance risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk were not material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. Exelon may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Exelon uses a calculation of future cash inflows and estimated future outflows related to the swap agreements, which are discounted and netted to determine the current fair value. Additional inputs to the present value calculation include the contract terms, as well as market parameters such as interest rates and volatility. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. 98 Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Beginning January 1, 2007, the Registrants began accounting for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Prior to January 1, 2007, the Registrants estimated their uncertain income tax obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS No. 109), SFAS No. 5, and Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements a replacement of FASB Concepts Statement No. 3 (incorporating an amendment of FASB Concepts Statement No. 2) (CON 6). The Registrants recognize accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense or interest income in other income and deductions on their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Registrants also have non income tax obligations related to real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals related to these tax matters that are outside the scope of FIN 48 and accounted for under SFAS No. 5 and CON 6. Accounting for tax positions requires judgments, including estimating reserves for potential uncertainties. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with FIN 48, SFAS No. 5, SFAS No. 109 and CON 6 as applicable, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimable based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their financial statements. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but 99 not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of probable losses on the accounts receivable balances. The allowance is based on known troubled accounts, historical experience and other currently available evidence. For ComEd and PECO, customer accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. Customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory guidelines. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories and are prohibited from terminating electric service to certain residential customers due to nonpayment during certain months of the year. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. Under Pennsylvanias Competition Act, licensed entities, including competitive electric generation suppliers, may act as agents to provide a single bill and provide associated billing and collection services to retail customers located in PECOs retail electric service territory. Currently, there are no third parties providing billing of PECOs charges to customers or advanced metering; however, if this occurs, PECO would need to make adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts for the ability of the third parties to collect such receivables from the customers. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. 100 Results of Operations (Dollars in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise noted) Results of Operations Exelon 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)2007 vs. 2006variance Operating revenues $ 18,859 $ 18,916 $ (57 ) $ 15,655 $ 3,261 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 6,582 7,642 1,060 5,232 (2,410 ) Operating and maintenance 4,566 4,289 (277 ) 3,868 (421 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 1,634 1,520 (114 ) 1,487 (33 ) Taxes other than income 778 797 19 771 (26 ) Total operating expenses 13,560 14,248 688 12,134 (2,114 ) Operating income 5,299 4,668 631 3,521 1,147 Other income and deductions Interest expense (699 ) (647 ) (52 ) (616 ) (31 ) Interest expense to affiliates, net (133 ) (203 ) 70 (264 ) 61 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (26 ) (106 ) 80 (111 ) 5 Other, net (407 ) 460 (867 ) 266 194 Total other income and deductions (1,265 ) (496 ) (769 ) (725 ) 229 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 4,034 4,172 (138 ) 2,796 1,376 Income taxes 1,317 1,446 129 1,206 (240 ) Income from continuing operations 2,717 2,726 (9 ) 1,590 1,136 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 10 10 2 8 Net income $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 Diluted earnings per share $ 4.13 $ 4.05 $ 0.08 $ 2.35 $ 1.70 Net Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Exelons net income for 2008 was consistent compared to 2007. Increases were primarily due to higher average realized margins at Generation, reflecting higher realized prices on market sales; increased revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio; net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities; the impact of the Illinois Settlement reached in 2007; increased transmission and delivery service revenue at ComEd in 2008 resulting from the 2007 transmission and distribution rate cases; the impact of a 2007 loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska; the impact of a decreased charitable contribution to the Exelon Foundation; and gains related to the settlement of claims related to uranium supply agreements. These increases were offset by unrealized and realized losses associated with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds related to its Unregulated Units; increased nuclear fuel costs; decreased nuclear output at Generation reflecting increased scheduled refueling outage days in 2008; increased operating and maintenance expense related to the higher number of planned nuclear refueling outages; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense at PECO and ComEd as well as the establishment of a reserve related to Generations accounts receivable from Lehman; labor related 101 inflation; increased scheduled CTC amortization expense at PECO; impact of a gain realized in 2007 on nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments related to the Unregulated Units primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy; realized nuclear decommissioning trust fund losses related to a tax planning strategy; the impact of the favorable 2007 PJM Interconnection, LLC billing settlement with PPL Electric; the impact of the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in 2007; and income associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities in 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Exelons net income for 2007 increased due to the impact of a $776 million impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill; higher average margins on Generations wholesale market sales primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006; increased nuclear output at Generation reflecting fewer outage days; increased transmission revenues at ComEd; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; increased delivery volume, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; decreased nuclear refueling outage costs; the impact of incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; gains realized on decommissioning trust fund investments related to changes in the investment strategy; favorable income tax benefit associated with Exelons method of capitalizing overhead costs; increased earnings associated with synthetic fuel producing facilities; the reduction in the reserve related to the successful PURTA tax settlement at PECO; and the impact of a charge in 2006 associated with the termination of the proposed merger with PSEG. These increases were partially offset by decreased energy margins at ComEd due to the end of the regulatory transition period; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; the impact of the Illinois Settlement; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the Unregulated Units; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; increased amortization expense related to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO; costs associated with the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas; benefits in 2006 of approximately $288 million to recover certain costs by the ICC rate orders; and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. Operating Revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Operating revenues decreased due to lower nuclear output due to more planned refueling outage days in 2008; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; the impact of the Illinois Settlement; the reduction in PECOs distribution rates made to refund the PURTA tax settlement to customers (completely offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability reflected in taxes other than income); and the impact of the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by higher realized prices on market sales at Generation; increased transmission and delivery service revenue at ComEd resulting from the 2007 transmission and distribution rate cases; increased delivery volumes, excluding the effects of weather, at PECO; and increased revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio. See additional analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Operating revenues increased due to an increase in wholesale and retail electric sales at Generation resulting from higher volumes of generation sold to the market at higher prices as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006; income associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line; the impact of rate changes and mix at ComEd due to the end of the rate freeze and the 102 implementation of market based rates for electricity; increased transmission revenues at ComEd resulting from the 2007 transmission rate case; increased rates for delivery services at ComEd; favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; higher delivery volumes, excluding the effects of weather, at ComEd and PECO; and authorized electric generation rate increases under the 1998 restructuring agreement at PECO. These increases were partially offset by more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; costs associated with ComEds settlement agreement with the City of Chicago; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. See additional analysis and discussion of operating revenues by segment below. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Purchased power and fuel expense decreased due to net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities; favorable settlements reached in 2008 related to uranium supply agreements; unfavorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories; and the impact of a 2007 loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to a contract with Tenaska. These decreases were partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs at Generation; increased transmission expense at PECO; and the impact of the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in 2007. See additional analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Purchased power and fuel expense increased due to higher market energy prices; unrealized mark to market losses on contracts not yet settled; a loss associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to a contract with Tenaska; higher prices for electricity purchased by ComEd; and favorable weather conditions in the ComEd and PECO service territories. Purchased power represented 20% of Generations total supply for 2007 and 2006. The increases in purchased power and fuel expense were partially offset by a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007; more non residential customers at ComEd electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier; and the expiration of certain wholesale contracts at ComEd. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under its supplier forward contracts from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See additional analysis and discussion of purchased power and fuel expense by segment below. Operating and Maintenance Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense at PECO and ComEd as well as the establishment of a reserve related to Generations accounts receivable from Lehman; discrete disallowances, net of allowed regulatory assets, mandated by the September 2008 ICC order in ComEds 2007 delivery service rate case; labor related inflation; increased expenses related to a higher number of planned nuclear refueling outages, including planned nuclear refueling outage costs at Salem; and decreased nuclear insurance credits accrued by Generation in 2008. These increases are partially offset by a decrease in costs associated with the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas; decreased charitable contributions to the Exelon Foundation; and decreased stock based compensation costs. See further discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Operating and maintenance expense increased primarily due to increased pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense; the impact of inflationary cost pressures; a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in Generations nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the Unregulated Units; increased uncollectible accounts expense at ComEd and PECO; incremental storm costs associated with storm 103 damage in the ComEd service territory; a charitable contribution of $50 million to the Exelon Foundation; new nuclear site development costs for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas; increased tax consulting fees; and the impact of benefits of $201 million recorded at ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate orders. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006; the impact of incremental storm costs in 2006 associated with storm damage in the PECO service territory; and the impact of a charge recorded in 2006 of approximately $55 million for the write off of capitalized costs associated with the now terminated proposed merger with PSEG. See additional discussion of operating and maintenance expenses by segment below. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to increased scheduled CTC amortization expense at PECO and higher plant balances due to additional plant placed in service across Exelon. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to scheduled CTC amortization at PECO and additional plant placed in service across Exelon. These increases were partially offset by lower amortization related to investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Taxes Other Than Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Taxes other than income decreased primarily due to an Illinois distribution tax refund received in 2008 and the amortization of the regulatory liability recorded in connection with the 2007 PURTA settlement, which began in January 2008 and is offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in the distribution rates to refund the PURTA taxes to customers. These factors are partially offset by the impact of increased property taxes and payroll taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Taxes other than income increased primarily due to an increase in utility taxes resulting from higher utility revenues at PECO and the impact of favorable tax settlements at PECO in 2006. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of a reserve related to the successful PURTA tax settlement at PECO. Other Income and Deductions. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The change in other income and deductions primarily reflects unrealized and realized losses on Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments of its Unregulated Units; the impact of 2007 gain from sale of Generations investment in TEG and TEP; and the income associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities that ceased operations at the end of 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The change in other income and deductions reflects interest income related to the favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL; a gain related to the sale of investments by Generation; income and gains associated with the nuclear decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy; benefits of $87 million recorded by ComEd in 2006 as a result of the 2006 ICC rate order; and earnings associated with investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. 104 Effective Income Tax Rate. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The effective income tax rate was 32.6% for 2008 compared to 34.7% for 2007. The 2008 rate decreased, as compared with 2007, primarily due to the impact of higher marginal tax rates applicable to realized and unrealized losses in the nuclear decommissioning trust funds recorded at Generation, partially offset by the expiration of synthetic fuel tax credits under Internal Revenue Code Section 45K on December 31, 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The effective income tax rate was 34.7% for 2007 compared to 43.1% for 2006. The 2007 rate decreased, as compared with 2006, primarily due to ComEds non deductible goodwill impairment charge in 2006 which increased the rate by 9.7% and a decrease of state tax expense in 2007 of 1.5% due to a tax restructuring to allow utilization of separate company losses for state income tax purposes, partially offset by a reduction in synthetic fuel credits of 1.7% in 2007 caused by an increase in the phase out due to higher oil prices, and other changes amounting to 1.1%. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information of the components of the effective income tax rates and discussion on the investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities. Discontinued Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Income from discontinued operations related to expiration of tax indemnifications in connection to a prior investment in Sithe Energies, Inc. (Sithe). Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. On January 31, 2005, subsidiaries of Generation completed a series of transactions that resulted in Generations sale of its investment in Sithe Energies, Inc (Sithe). In addition, Exelon has sold or wound down substantially all components of Exelon Enterprises Company, LLC (Enterprises). Accordingly, the results of operations and any gain or loss on the sale of these entities have been presented as discontinued operations within Exelons (for Sithe and Enterprises) and Generations (for Sithe) Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the presentation of Sithe and certain Enterprises businesses as discontinued operations. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of 2008, 2007, and 2006 operating results and other statistical information set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)2007 vs. 2006variance Generation $ 2,258 $ 2,025 $ 233 $ 1,403 $ 622 ComEd 201 165 36 (112 ) 277 PECO 325 507 (182 ) 441 66 Other (a) (67 ) 29 (96 ) (142 ) 171 Total $ 2,717 $ 2,726 $ (9 ) $ 1,590 $ 1,136 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 105 Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs.2007variance 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)2007 vs.2006variance Generation $ 2,278 $ 2,029 $ 249 $ 1,407 $ 622 ComEd 201 165 36 (112 ) 277 PECO 325 507 (182 ) 441 66 Other (a) (67 ) 35 (102 ) (144 ) 179 Total $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1 $ 1,592 $ 1,144 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2008 2007 Favorable(Unfavorable)Variance2008 vs. 2007 2006 Favorable(Unfavorable)Variance2007 vs. 2006 Operating revenues $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 5 $ 9,143 $ 1,606 Operating expenses Purchased power and fuel 3,572 4,451 879 3,978 (473 ) Operating and maintenance 2,717 2,454 (263 ) 2,305 (149 ) Depreciation and amortization 274 267 (7 ) 279 12 Taxes other than income 197 185 (12 ) 185 Total operating expenses 6,760 7,357 597 6,747 (610 ) Operating income 3,994 3,392 602 2,396 996 Other income and deductions Interest expense (136 ) (161 ) 25 (159 ) (2 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of investments (1 ) 1 (2 ) (9 ) 10 Other, net (469 ) 155 (624 ) 41 114 Total other income and deductions (606 ) (5 ) (601 ) (127 ) 122 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,388 3,387 1 2,269 1,118 Income taxes 1,130 1,362 232 866 (496 ) Income from continuing operations 2,258 2,025 233 1,403 622 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 4 16 4 Net income $ 2,278 $ 2,029 $ 249 $ 1,407 $ 622 Net Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generations net income increased primarily due to higher operating revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses and unrealized and realized losses in 2008 and realized gains in 2007 related to nuclear decommissioning trust funds associated with the Unregulated Units. Higher net operating revenues, net of purchased power and fuel expense, 106 reflected higher average realized margins, higher net mark to market gains on economic hedging activities, lower costs incurred in conjunction with the Illinois Settlement, a 2007 loss associated with the tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska, increased revenue from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio and gains related to the settlement of uranium supply agreements in 2008, partially offset by increased nuclear fuel costs, lower nuclear output reflecting a higher number of scheduled refueling and non refueling outage days, the gain on the termination of the State Line PPA in 2007, a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007 and impairments of stored oil and gas inventory in 2008. Higher operating and maintenance expenses included increased wages, salaries and benefits (excluding stock based compensation), nuclear refueling outage costs associated with a higher number of planned refueling outages, higher costs associated with nuclear decommissioning related activities and the establishment of a reserve related to counterparty exposure to Lehman, partially offset by decreases in contractor expenses, stock based compensation and costs associated with the possible construction of a nuclear power plant in Texas. Additional offsets to increased net income in 2008 included decommissioning trust fund activity associated with the Unregulated Units which reflected unrealized losses in 2008, realized losses related to a tax planning strategy in 2008 and the impact of realized gains in 2007 associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Generations net income increased primarily due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, more than offsetting inflationary and other cost pressures, a greater reduction in 2006 compared to 2007 in the nuclear decommissioning obligation related to the Unregulated Units and costs associated with the new nuclear plant COL application. Generations revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased due to higher average margins primarily due to the end of the below market price PPA with ComEd at the end of 2006, the contractual increase in the prices associated with Generations PPA with PECO, the termination of the State Line PPA and a favorable PJM billing settlement with PPL in 2007, partially offset by amounts incurred in conjunction with the Illinois Settlement, net mark to market losses on derivative activities and the execution of the Georgia Power PPA. In addition to these impacts, Generations net income for 2007 included (all after tax) gains of $38 million related to the Unregulated Units associated with changes in Generations investment strategy with the decommissioning trust fund investments, a gain on the sale of investments of $11 million and earnings of $4 million associated with the settlement of a tax matter related to Generations previous investment in Sithe. Operating Revenues. For 2008, 2007 and 2006 Generations revenues were as follows: Revenue 2008 2007 2008 vs. 2007 2006 2007 vs. 2006 Variance %Change Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,561 $ 3,537 $ 24 0.7 % $ 4,674 $ (1,137 ) (24.3 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales (a) 6,720 6,834 (114 ) (1.7 )% 3,640 3,194 87.7 % Total electric sales revenue 10,281 10,371 (90 ) (0.9 )% 8,314 2,057 24.7 % Retail gas sales 497 449 48 10.7 % 540 (91 ) (16.9 )% Trading portfolio 106 43 63 146.5 % 14 29 207.1 % Other operating revenue (b) (130 ) (114 ) (16 ) 14.0 % 275 (389 ) (141.4 )% Total operating revenue $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 5 0.0 % $ 9,143 $ 1,606 17.6 % (a) For 2008, $2 million of pre tax reduction in revenue from settlements related to the ComEd swap and $29 million of pre tax revenue from sales to ComEd under the RFP have been excluded from ComEd and included in Marketing and Retail sales. (b) Includes amounts incurred for the Illinois Settlement for 2008 and 2007, and revenues relating to fossil fuel sales and decommissioning revenue from PECO during 2008, 2007 and 2006. 107 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 Sales (in gigawatt hours (GWhs)(a)) 2008 2007 Variance %Change 2006 Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates 64,166 64,406 (240 ) (0.4 )% 119,354 (54,948 ) (46.0 )% Wholesale and retail electric sales 112,008 125,244 (13,236 ) (10.6 )% 71,326 53,918 75.6 % Total electric sales 176,174 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% (a) 486 GWh during 2008, resulting from sales to ComEd under the RFP starting in September 2008, have been excluded from ComEd and included in Market and Retail sales. Trading volumes of 8,891 GWhs, 20,323 GWhs and 31,692 GWhs for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. The changes in Generations electric sales to affiliates for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Electrical sales to affiliates Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Variance 2007 vs. 2006 Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) ComEd $ (9 ) $ 9 $ $ 650 $ (2,035 ) $ (1,385 ) PECO 43 (19 ) 24 169 79 248 Total $ 34 $ (10 ) $ 24 $ 819 $ (1,956 ) $ (1,137 ) Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. In the ComEd territories the volume increase was primarily the result of an acquisition by Generation from an unrelated third party of the unrelated third partys supply obligations under the ComEd auction effective January 1, 2008. The price decrease in the ComEd territories was largely due to final reconciliation activity recorded in 2007 associated with the full requirements ComEd PPA which ended on December 31, 2006. In the PECO territories, the price increase reflects a favorable change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPA with Generation, in addition to the effects of the last scheduled rate increase under the PPA, which took effect in mid January 2007. The volume decrease in the PECO territories was primarily due to unfavorable weather conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. In the ComEd territories, decreased volumes were the result of the expiration of Generations PPA with ComEd effective December 31, 2006. The decrease was partially offset by higher prices received by Generation following the expiration of the PPA, under which Generation was receiving below market rates. With the expiration of the PPA, Generation is now receiving higher prices from ComEd under the forward supply contracts. In the PECO territories, higher prices were the result of a scheduled electric generation rate increase that took effect January 1, 2007. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The increase in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) 2008vs.2007 2007vs.2006 Volume $ (720 ) $ 2,782 Price 606 412 Increase (decrease) in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (114 ) $ 3,194 108 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in volumes is reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts in addition to lower volumes of generation sold to the market, including the termination of the Stateline PPA in October 2007. The increase in price was primarily the result of an overall increase in market prices and includes a $29 million increase in revenue related to the ComEd RFP. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The increase in wholesale and retail electric sales was primarily the result of higher volumes of generation sold to the market as a result of the expiration of the ComEd PPA at the end of 2006. Retail gas sales. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Retail gas sales increased $48 million of which $74 million was due to higher realized prices offset by a $26 million decrease due to lower volumes as a result of decreased demand. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Retail gas sales decreased $91 million of which $53 million of the decrease was due to lower volumes as a result of lower demand and $38 million was due to lower realized prices. Trading Portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The trading portfolio increased $63 million which was due primarily to earnings from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Other revenue. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in other revenues was primarily due to the $223 million of income in 2007 associated with the termination of Generations PPA with State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line), partially offset by $187 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren and $14 million Salem oil spill settlement received in December 2008. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the oil spill settlement. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The decrease in other revenues was primarily due to a $408 million decrease for amounts recorded related to the Illinois Settlement, a decrease of $86 million due to the cessation of a tolling agreement and a $66 million decrease related to the termination of decommissioning collections from ComEd in accordance with the terms and conditions of the ICC order which only permitted such collections through December 31, 2006, partially offset by income of $223 million related to the termination of the State Line PPA. Additionally, a $40 million decrease in other revenues was attributable to the sale of Termoel&eacute;ctrica del Golfo (TEG) and Termoel&eacute;ctrica Pe&ntilde;oles (TEP) on February 9, 2007 and the resulting absence of revenue thereafter. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 Supply Source (in GWhs) 2008 2007 Variance %Change 2006 Variance %Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,342 140,359 (1,017 ) (0.7 )% 139,610 749 0.5 % Purchases 26,263 38,021 (11,758 ) (30.9 )% 38,297 (276 ) (0.7 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 10,569 11,270 (701 ) (6.2 )% 12,773 (1,503 ) (11.8 )% Total supply 176,174 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% 190,680 (1,030 ) (0.5 )% (a) Supply source in GWhs at ownership. 109 The following table presents changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006. Generation considers the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense as a useful measure to analyze the profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Variance 2007 vs. 2006 Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Purchased power costs and tolling agreement costs (a) $ 767 $ (825 ) $ (58 ) $ 236 $ (47 ) $ 189 Generation costs (b) (89 ) (12 ) (101 ) 2 (5 ) (3 ) Fuel resale costs 99 (25 ) 74 (56 ) (38 ) (94 ) Mark to market n.m. n.m. (623 ) n.m. n.m. 275 (Decrease) increase in purchased power and fuel expense $ (708 ) $ 367 (a) Variance for both periods presented excludes the net impact of $119 million loss recorded in 2007 associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Variance for 2008 as compared to 2007 excludes gains of approximately $53 million related to non performance claims for uranium supply agreements recorded in 2008. Variance for 2007 as compared to 2006 excludes the net impact of a $13 million one time settlement with the Department of Energy recorded in 2006 for uranium enrichment services. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. n.m. Not meaningful. Purchased Power Costs and Tolling Agreement Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to market conditions that resulted in decreased purchases from contracted units as well as decreased volumes due to the termination of the State Line PPA in October 2007. The decrease in volumes is also reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts. Generation realized overall higher prices for purchased power as a result of an overall increase in market prices. Further, Generations purchased power costs increased $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in the first quarter of 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to lower volumes needed to supply ComEd as a result of the expiration of the PPA at December 31, 2006. Generation incurred overall higher prices for purchased power, partially offset by a decrease of $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation cost includes fuel cost for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall lower generation costs for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the same period in 2007 due to decreased realized prices and lower volumes. Additionally, Generation has recorded gains of approximately $53 million related to non performance claims for uranium supply agreements. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 110 Partially offsetting the overall decrease in realized prices and gains associated with uranium supply agreement costs were increased costs for uranium and fossil fuel inventory impairments of $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Generation costs were relatively flat. The decrease in volume of $5 million was primarily due to lower fossil and hydroelectric generation, partially offset by higher nuclear generation. Fuel Resale Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Fuel resale cost includes retail gas purchases and wholesale fossil fuel expenses. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs for 2008 as compared to 2007 consisted of overall higher prices resulting in an increase of $87 million, in addition to a retail gas inventory impairment of $12 million during the year 2008. Additionally, lower volumes caused by lower demand resulted in a decrease of $25 million. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The changes in Generations fuel resale costs consisted of overall lower prices resulting in a decrease of $56 million. Additionally, a decrease of $38 million was the result of lower volumes caused by lower demand. Mark to market. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $414 million in 2008 compared to losses of $253 million in 2007. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $38 million in 2008 compared to gains of $81 million in 2007. See Notes 8 and 9 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives under SFAS No. 157. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Mark to market losses on power derivative activities were $253 million in 2007 compared to gains of $180 million in 2006. Mark to market gains on fuel derivative activities were $81 million in 2007 compared to losses of $77 million in 2006. The following table presents average electric revenues, supply costs and margins per megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity sold during 2008 as compared 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006. As set forth in the table, average electric margins are defined as average electric revenues less average electric supply costs. Generation considers average electric margins useful measures to analyze the change in profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these margins are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. ($/MWh) 2008 2007 2008 vs.2007% Change 2006 2007 vs.2006% Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 55.50 $ 54.90 1.1 % $ 39.16 40.2 % Wholesale and retail electric sales (a) 59.99 54.59 9.9 % 51.03 7.0 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 58.35 54.70 6.7 % 43.60 25.5 % Average electric supply cost(b), (c) excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 19.87 $ 19.54 1.7 % $ 18.56 5.3 % Average margin excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 38.48 $ 35.16 9.4 % $ 25.04 40.4 % 111 (a) For year 2008, $2 million of a pre tax reduction in revenue from settlements related to the ComEd swap and $29M of pre tax increase in revenue from the ComEd RFP have been excluded from Electric sales to affiliates and included in Wholesale and retail electric sales. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales excluding the impact of mark to market hedging activities. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales and other sales for all periods presented. (c) For year 2007, excludes the net impact of the $119 million loss related to the execution of the Georgia Power PPA and costs related to the termination of the State Line PPA during 2007. The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2008, as compared to 2007 and 2006, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one (1) MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2008 2007 2006 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.9 % 94.5 % 93.9 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh(a), (b) $ 15.87 $ 14.46 $ 13.85 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. (b) For 2008, excludes the $53 million reduction in fuel expense related to uranium supply agreement non performance settlements. See note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The nuclear fleet capacity factor decreased primarily due to a higher number of scheduled refueling outage days. For 2008 and 2007, refueling outage days totaled 241 and 195, respectively, while non refueling outage days totaled 59 in both years. The lower number of net MWhs generated, the impact of inflation on labor and contracting costs and higher nuclear fuel costs plus the refueling outage costs associated with the higher number of refueling outage days resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2008 as compared 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The nuclear fleet capacity factor increased primarily due to fewer outage days. For 2007 and 2006, refueling outage days totaled 195 and 237, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 59 and 71, respectively. The higher number of net MWhs generated and lower costs due to fewer planned refueling outage days were offset by higher costs for labor, nuclear fuel, NRC reactor fees, security costs and material condition work, resulting in an increase in the production cost per MWh for 2007 as compared to 2006. 112 Operating and Maintenance Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Wages, salaries and benefits $ 112 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant 88 Nuclear decommissioning related activities 57 Accounts receivable reserve 22 Nuclear insurance credits 15 Corporate allocations 13 Non nuclear ARO adjustments 9 Contractor expenses (26 ) Stock based compensation (25 ) New nuclear plant development costs (22 ) Other 20 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 263 The $112 million increase in wages, salaries and benefits reflects the impact of inflation and the costs for the Generation nuclear security personnel hired to replace the external organization that previously provided security services. The $88 million increase in nuclear refueling outage costs was primarily associated with the higher number of refueling outage days during 2008 as compared to 2007. The $57 million increase in nuclear decommissioning related activities was associated with the $47 million increase in decommissioning related activities related to the contractual elimination of income taxes associated with the decommissioning trust funds of the former ComEd and PECO nuclear generating units (Regulated Units) and the recognition of income of $19 million related to an ARO adjustment in 2008, compared to income of $29 million related to an ARO adjustment in 2007, representing reductions in the asset retirement obligation in excess of the asset retirement cost balances for the Unregulated Units. The $22 million increase in the accounts receivable reserve is the result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Economic Environment for additional information. The $15 million increase relates to a decrease in nuclear insurance credits accrued in 2008 as compared to 2007. The $13 million increase in corporate support service costs reflected an increase in a variety of BSC services allocated to Generation, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology and supply management services. The $9 million increase relates to non nuclear asset retirement obligation adjustments in 2008 and 2007. The $26 million decrease in contractor costs was primarily related to lower contractor security costs due to Generation no longer using an external organization for security at its nuclear plants (Generation has hired its own personnel to provide security services). The decrease was partially offset by inflationary increases on non outage contracting and services maintenance work at the nuclear plants and staff augmentation and maintenance work at the fossil and hydroelectric plants. The $25 million decrease in stock based compensation was the result of a decrease in Exelons stock price. 113 The $22 million decrease in new nuclear plant development costs reflects a reduction in costs associated with the possible construction of a nuclear power plant in Texas. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Wages, salaries and benefits $ 85 New Nuclear plant development costs 49 Nuclear decommissioning related activities 40 Contractor expenses 24 Corporate allocations 14 TEG and TEP related expenses (39 ) Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem plant (32 ) Other 8 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 149 The $85 million increase in payroll, salaries and benefits reflected the impact of inflation as well as an increase in various direct fringe costs. The $49 million increase in new nuclear site development costs was due to costs incurred for the evaluation and development of a new nuclear generating facility in Texas, including fees and costs related to the COL, reservation payments for long lead components of the project, and other site evaluation and development costs. The $40 million increase in nuclear decommissioning related activities was primarily associated with the recognition of a credit of $29 million, compared to a credit of $149 million recognized in 2006, representing reductions in the asset retirement obligation in excess of the asset retirement cost balance for the Unregulated Units. Additionally, decommissioning related activities decreased by $66 million resulting from the termination of revenue collections on December 31, 2006 from ComEd, which likewise no longer required an offset through operating and maintenance expense, and decreased by $14 million due to the offset of certain income taxes associated with decommission related activity. The $24 million increase in contractor expense was primarily related to staff augmentation and maintenance work at the nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric plants. The $14 million increase in corporate support service costs reflected an increase in a variety of BSC services allocated to Generation, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology and supply management services. The $39 million decrease in expenses related to TEG and TEP was due to the sale of the investment in 2007. The $32 million decrease in nuclear refueling outage costs was associated with the fewer planned refueling outage days during 2007 compared to 2006. Depreciation and Amortization. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the reassessment of the useful lives of several fossil facilities. The impact of the reassessment of the useful lives did not and will not result in a material change to Generations results of operations as compared to amounts recognized in periods prior to the change. 114 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to the reassessment of the useful lives of several fossil facilities and the write off of certain asset retirement costs in 2006. Taxes Other Than Income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase was primarily due to increased payroll taxes and property taxes, partially offset by a gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Interest Expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease in interest expense reflected lower interest on spent nuclear fuel obligations as a result of lower rates and an increase in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of the FIN 48 tax interest calculation in 2007, partially offset by increased interest from higher outstanding long term debt balances as a result of the September 2007 bond issuance and higher outstanding commercial paper balances. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, the increase in net interest expense was primarily attributable to an increase in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of the FIN 48 tax interest calculation and an increase in interest expense related to the bond issuance during the third quarter of 2007, partially offset by an interest payment accrued in 2006 for the settlement of a tax matter, a decline in the amount of commercial paper that was outstanding and an increase in average cash on hand balances during 2007 compared to 2006 Other, Net. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease in other, net primarily reflects net unrealized losses in 2008 on the nuclear decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units due to adverse financial market conditions, the contractual elimination of income taxes associated with the decommissioning trust funds of the Regulated Units, realized losses on the trust funds of the Unregulated Units due to the execution of a tax planning strategy in 2008, and realized gains in 2007 on nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments of the Unregulated Units associated with changes in Generations investment strategy, partially offset by 2007 a gain on sale of TEG and TEP. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, the increase in other, net reflects a gain on sale of investments recognized in 2007 and realized gains associated with nuclear decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units, net of other than temporary impairments, primarily associated with changes in Generations investment strategy. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the decommissioning trust funds of the Unregulated Units recognized in other, net for 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds Unregulated Units $ (324 ) $ (b) $ (b) Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds Unregulated Units $ (39 ) $ 64 $ (1 ) Other than temporary impairment of decommissioning trust funds Unregulated Units(a) n/a $ (9 ) $ (3 ) 115 (a) As a result of certain NRC restrictions, Exelon and Generation were unable to demonstrate the ability and intent to hold the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments through a recovery period and, accordingly, recognized any unrealized holding losses immediately. After the adoption of the fair value option under SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008, other than temporary impairments are no longer recognized since all changes in fair value are recognized in the Statement of Operations beginning January 1, 2008. (b) Unrealized gains (losses) were included in accumulated OCI on Exelons and Generations Consolidated Balance prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 159 on January 1, 2008. See Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities in Note 12 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the adoption of SFAS No. 159 related to the nuclear decommissioning trust fund investments. Effective Income Tax Rate Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations decreased to 33.4% for 2008 from 40.2% in 2007. Generations effective tax rate decreased primarily as a result of recording tax benefits on realized and unrealized losses in its qualified nuclear decommissioning fund investments. The tax benefits on the realized and unrealized losses discussed above were recorded at a higher statutory tax rate than Generations remaining income from operations. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The effective tax rate was 40.2% for 2007 compared to 38.2% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was attributable to an increase in deferred tax expense associated with the generation portion of ComEds research and development settlement as well as ComEds and PECOs application of the indirect cost capitalization method settlement guidelines recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, realized gains recognized in the fourth quarter of 2007 by the qualified nuclear decommissioning trusts also contributed to the increase in the effective tax rate. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the components of the effective income tax rates. Discontinued Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. During 2008, Generation reduced its guarantee liabilities and recognized $38 million of income in discontinued operations related to the expiration of tax indemnifications in connection to a prior investment in Sithe Energies, Inc. (Sithe). Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. For 2007 as compared to 2006, Generations Consolidated Statement of Income for 2007 reflects a $4 million (after tax) gain on the disposal of discontinued operations related primarily to Sithe, resulting from a settlement agreement between a subsidiary of Sithe, the Pennsylvania Attorney Generals Office and the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue regarding a previously disputed tax position asserted for the 2000 tax year. Generations Consolidated Statement of Income and Comprehensive Income for 2006 reflected a $4 million (after tax) gain on disposal of discontinued operations. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the presentation of Sithe as discontinued operations. 116 Results of Operations ComEd 2008 2007 Favorable(Unfavorable)variance2008 vs. 2007 2006 Favorable(Unfavorable)variance2007 vs. 2006 Operating revenues $ 6,136 $ 6,104 $ 32 $ 6,101 $ 3 Purchased power expense 3,582 3,747 165 3,292 (455 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense 2,554 2,357 197 2,809 (452 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,125 1,091 (34 ) 745 (346 ) Impairment of goodwill 776 776 Depreciation and amortization 464 440 (24 ) 430 (10 ) Taxes other than income 298 314 16 303 (11 ) Total other operating expenses 1,887 1,845 (42 ) 2,254 409 Operating income 667 512 155 555 (43 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (348 ) (318 ) (30 ) (308 ) (10 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (8 ) (7 ) (1 ) (10 ) 3 Other, net 18 58 (40 ) 96 (38 ) Total other income and deductions (338 ) (267 ) (71 ) (222 ) (45 ) Income before income taxes 329 245 84 333 (88 ) Income taxes 128 80 (48 ) 445 365 Net income (loss) $ 201 $ 165 $ 36 $ (112 ) $ 277 Net Income. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. As more fully described below, ComEds net income for 2008 compared to 2007 reflected higher revenue net of purchased power expense, primarily driven by higher transmission rates effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008 and higher distribution rates effective September 16, 2008. In 2008, ComEd received a refund of Illinois Distribution Tax that also contributed to the increase in net income. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather; higher operating and maintenance expense, principally driven by disallowances arising from the 2007 Rate Case order and higher storm costs; higher depreciation and amortization expense; and higher interest expense. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. As more fully described below, ComEds net income (loss) for 2007 compared to 2006 reflected the impact of a goodwill impairment charge in 2006 partially offset by higher purchased power expense, higher operating and maintenance expense, and the impacts of the 2006 benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses as a result of the July and December 2006 ICC rate orders. In 2007, ComEd incurred increased costs associated with transitioning from the rate freeze period, including implementing the rate relief programs. Operating Revenues and Purchased Power Expense. ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes revenue net of purchased power is a useful measurement of its performance because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, effective January 2, 2007, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with 117 GAAP. However, the revenue net of purchased power figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower RevenueNet ofPurchasedPower Retail energy and customer choice $ (98 ) $ (108 ) $ 10 Transmission 65 11 54 Volume delivery 2 n/a 2 Weather delivery (38 ) n/a (38 ) Wholesale contracts (58 ) (64 ) 6 Rate relief program 27 n/a 27 Energy efficiency and demand response programs 25 n/a 25 2007 Distribution Rate Case 75 n/a 75 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 5 n/a 5 Other 27 (4 ) 31 Total (decrease) increase $ 32 $ (165 ) $ 197 Retail energy and customer choice Revenue net of purchased power for 2008 compared to 2007 reflects the one day impact of lower retail rates for January 1, 2007 before the expiration of the rate freeze and implementation of the rate increase on January 2, 2007. Revenue. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase electricity from a competitive electric supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied electricity and generation service. Customer choice does not affect ComEds operating income because the cost of the procured power is passed along to customers without mark up. As of December 31, 2008, several competitive electric suppliers had been granted approval to serve retail electricity customers in the ComEd service territory. There are currently a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative suppliers. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, 51% and 48%, respectively, of electricity delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2008 2007 Retail customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric supplier: Number of customers at period end 43,100 44,200 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % 1 % Volume (GWhs) 46,950 45,020 Percentage of total retail deliveries 51 % 48 % Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to the impact of ComEd customers electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. 118 Transmission Revenue. ComEd has a FERC approved formula rate for its transmission rates. ComEd experienced increased revenue in 2008 due to the impact of higher transmission rates effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Purchased Power. Effective December 1, 2004, PJM members became obligated to pay Seams Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustments/Assignment (SECA) collections to ComEd and ComEd became obligated to pay SECA charges, because ComEd is both a transmission owner and a load serving entity within PJM. ComEd recorded SECA collections and payments on a net basis through purchased power expense. These charges were subject to refund and dispute before FERC. The increase in purchased power expense during 2008 is due to the impact of a reduction of SECA reserves for potential refunds, which were recorded in 2007. Management of ComEd believes that appropriate reserves representing managements best estimate have been established in the event that some portion of the remaining SECA collections that are not settled are required to be refunded. Volume Delivery Revenue. While ComEds delivery volumes, exclusive of the effects of weather increased slightly compared to 2007 on a full year basis, during the fourth quarter of 2008 ComEd experienced a decrease in volumes. ComEd believes the trend from the fourth quarter will continue in 2009, due to the economic downturn. Weather Delivery Revenue. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business in ComEds service territory. Cooling degree days were 25% lower for 2008 compared to 2007, partially offset by an 11% increase in heating degree days. Wholesale Contracts Revenue. ComEds revenues decreased $58 million primarily due to the expiration of certain wholesale contracts in 2007. Purchased Power. ComEds purchased power decreased $64 million primarily due to the expiration of certain wholesale contracts in 2007. Rate relief program Revenue. ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2008 compared to 2007. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues for 2008. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 119 Energy efficiency and demand response programs Revenue. As a result of the 2007 Illinois Settlement, utilities are allowed recovery of costs for energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, ComEd recognized $25 million of revenue associated with these programs. This amount was offset by an equal amount of operating and maintenance expense. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 2007 Distribution Rate Case Revenue. The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in a $75 million increase in revenues for 2008 compared to 2007. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement Revenue. ComEd paid $18 million and $23 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments are recorded as a reduction in revenues; therefore, the lower payment resulted in a net increase in revenues for 2008. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The changes in operating revenues, purchased power expense and revenue net of purchased power expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower RevenueNet ofPurchasedPower Rate changes and mix $ 748 $ 1,346 $ (598 ) Rate relief program (33 ) n/a (33 ) Transmission 115 (17 ) 132 Weather 141 83 58 Delivery Volume 20 n/a 20 Customer Choice (917 ) (917 ) n/a Wholesale contracts (64 ) (50 ) (14 ) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (23 ) n/a (23 ) Other 16 10 6 Total increase (decrease) $ 3 $ 455 $ (452 ) Rate changes and mix Revenue. The increase in revenue related to rate changes and mix primarily reflects the end of the rate freeze and the implementation of market based rates for electricity and the impact of the distribution rate increase effective January 2, 2007. In 2006, most customers were charged a bundled rate that included distribution, transmission services and the cost of electricity. Additionally, under Illinois law, no competitive transition charges (CTCs) are permitted to be collected after 2006. As of January 2007, ComEd began billing customers on an unbundled basis, which includes separate charges for distribution, transmission and electricity. Given the relatively small increase of $83 million approved by the ICC in the annual distribution revenue requirements, the majority of the change in 120 year over year pricing was driven by the inclusion of market based electricity rates. The market based electricity rates were determined through a reverse auction competitive bidding process. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Additionally starting in 2007, ComEd began recovering former manufactured gas plant remediation costs from customers. Purchased Power. Purchased power increased due to higher electricity prices. The PPA with Generation terminated at the end of 2006. In 2007, as a result of the ICC approved reverse auction process, ComEd began procuring electricity, including ancillary services, under supplier forward contracts and from PJM administered wholesale electricity markets. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the reverse auction process. Rate Relief Programs Revenue. As part of its programs for customer rate relief approved and included in the 2007 Illinois Settlement, ComEd funded a portion of the credits issued to customers. These credits are recorded as a reduction of revenues when issued to customers. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Rate Relief Programs. Transmission Revenue. In 2007, ComEd experienced increased revenue from the provision of transmission services resulting from increased peak and kWh load within the ComEd service territory. Additionally, FERC issued an order in ComEds transmission rate case conditionally approving ComEds proposal to implement a formula based transmission rate and associated rate increase effective May 1, 2007, subject to refund. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Transmission Rate Case. Purchased Power. In 2006, ComEd recorded $5 million of net SECA collections. Also during 2006, ComEd adjusted its reserve for possible SECA refunds. In 2007, based on FERC approval of certain settlements, ComEd reduced its reserve for possible SECA refunds to reflect managements best estimate of the remaining amounts that will ultimately be required to be refunded. Management of ComEd believes that appropriate reserves have been established in the event that some portion of the remaining SECA collections that are not settled are required to be refunded. Weather Revenue. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions for 2007 compared to 2006. In ComEds service territory, heating degree days were 8% higher and cooling degree days were 19% higher during 2007 compared to 2006. Purchased Power. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to weather resulted from higher demand due to favorable weather conditions in the ComEd service territory relative to the prior year. Delivery volume Revenue. The increase in revenues for the provision of distribution services primarily resulted from an increase in deliveries, excluding the effects of weather, due to an increased number of customers. 121 Customer Choice Revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, 48% and 23%, respectively, of electricity delivered to ComEds retail customers was provided by competitive electric generation suppliers. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 44,200 19,600 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % (a) Volume (GWhs) 45,020 20,787 Percentage of total retail deliveries 48 % 23 % (a) Less than one percent. Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power expense from customer choice was primarily due to more ComEd non residential customers electing to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Wholesale Contracts Revenue. ComEds revenue decreased $64 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. Purchased Power. ComEds purchased power decreased $50 million as a result of certain wholesale contracts expiring in May 2007. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement Revenue. ComEd paid $23 million under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago, which was recorded as a reduction of revenue. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Operating and Maintenance Expense. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Energy efficiency and demand response programs (a) $ 25 2007 Rate Case order (b) 22 Wages and salaries 15 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (c) 12 Storm related costs 8 Corporate allocations 6 Post rate freeze period transition expenses incurred in 2007 (26 ) Contracting (23 ) Injuries and damages (9 ) Other 4 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 34 122 (a) These items are offset by an equal increase in revenues. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred operating and maintenance expenses. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (c) The allowance for uncollectible accounts expense increased during 2008 due to increased customer account charge offs and the impact of rate relief credits that reduced this expense during 2007. Management believes the current overall negative economic conditions contributed to the increase in uncollectible accounts expense in 2008 and may negatively impact future uncollectible accounts expense relative to historical levels. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) ICC rate order (a) $ 201 Contracting 31 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (b) 26 Wages and salaries 23 Storm related costs 19 Fringe benefits (c) 14 Corporate allocations 11 Materials and supplies expense 8 Post rate freeze period transition expenses (d) 7 Postage 7 Other (1 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 346 (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order and the December 2006 ICC rehearing order in 2006, ComEd recorded one time benefits associated with reversing previously incurred expenses including severance costs, MGP costs, procurement case and rate case costs. (b) This increase resulted from a change in collectability assumptions in response to changes in the customer payment patterns, changes in customer prices, changes in termination practices and certain changes in business and economic conditions. (c) Reflects increases in various fringe benefits primarily due to increased pension and other postretirement benefits costs. (d) Includes increased costs associated with the Rate Relief programs and other costs associated with transitioning to the post rate freeze period. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Impairment of Goodwill. ComEd performs an assessment of goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired. The assessment compares the carrying value of goodwill to the estimated fair value of goodwill as of a point in time. The estimated fair value incorporates managements assessment of current events and expected future cash flows. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. ComEds 2008 annual goodwill impairment assessment, performed in the fourth quarter, resulted in no additional impairment. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. During the third quarter of 2006, ComEd completed an interim assessment of goodwill for impairment purposes to reflect the adverse affects of the ICCs July 2006 rate order. The assessment indicated that ComEds goodwill was impaired and a charge of $776 million was recorded. ComEds 2007 annual goodwill impairment assessment, which was performed in the fourth quarter, resulted in no additional impairment. ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of remaining goodwill as of December 31, 2007. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 123 Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 19 $ 15 2007 Rate Case asset disallowances 2 (a) Other amortization expense 3 (5 ) Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 24 $ 10 (a) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. Taxes Other Than Income. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Taxes other than income decreased for 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of a $14 million refund of 2005 Illinois distribution tax received in 2008. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. Taxes other than income increased for 2007 compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a $7 million refund of Illinois distribution tax received in 2006. Interest Expense, Net. The changes in interest expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions $ 3 (a) $ (32 )(a) Interest expense on debt 29 (b) 19 (b) Amortization of debt related costs 20 (c) Other (2 ) 3 Increase in interest expense, net $ 30 $ 10 (a) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) The increase resulted from higher debt balances. (c) In 2007, ComEds interest expense, net reflected the initial amortization of the regulatory asset related to the early debt retirement costs authorized by the ICC in 2006. 124 Other, Net. The changes in other, net for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 ICC rate order CTC amortization $ $ (87 )(a) Interest income related to uncertain tax positions (36 )(b) 41 (b) Gain on disposal of assets and investments, net 4 Other (4 ) 4 Decrease in other, net $ (40 ) $ (38 ) (a) As a result of the July 2006 ICC rate order, ComEd recorded a benefit associated with reversing previously incurred expenses to retire debt early. (b) ComEd adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Effective Income Tax Rate. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. ComEds effective income tax rate for 2008 was 38.9% compared to 32.7% for 2007. This increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The effective income tax rate was 32.7% for 2007, compared to 133.6% for 2006. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the non deductible impairment charge in 2006 associated with ComEds goodwill accounting. The non deductible goodwill impairment charge decreased income (loss) before income taxes which increased the effective tax rate from continuing operations by 81.6% in 2006. The balance of the reduction was due to a benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization change in 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 2006 % Change2007 vs. 2006 Full service (a) Residential 28,389 29,374 (3.4 )% 28,330 3.7 % Small commercial & industrial 14,937 16,468 (9.3 )% 26,597 (38.1 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,045 1,949 (46.4 )% 12,595 (84.5 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 578 766 (24.5 )% 2,254 (66.0 )% Total full service 44,949 48,557 (7.4 )% 69,776 (30.4 )% Delivery only (b) Residential (c) n.m n.m. Small commercial & industrial 18,550 17,380 6.7 % 5,505 215.7 % Large commercial & industrial 27,764 27,122 2.4 % 15,282 77.5 % Public authorities & electric railroads 636 518 22.8 % 100.0 % Total delivery only 46,950 45,020 4.3 % 20,787 116.6 % Total retail deliveries 91,899 93,577 (1.8 )% 90,563 3.3 % 125 (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. (c) As of December 31, 2008, there are a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative suppliers with total activity of less than 1 GWh and $1 million. n.m. Not meaningful. Electric Revenue 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 2006 % Change2007 vs. 2006 Full service (a) Residential $ 3,284 $ 3,161 3.9 % $ 2,453 28.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,542 1,619 (4.8 )% 2,060 (21.4 )% Large commercial & industrial 90 154 (41.6 )% 700 (78.0 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 52 67 (22.4 )% 137 (51.1 )% Total full service 4,968 5,001 (0.7 )% 5,350 (6.5 )% Delivery only (b) Residential (c) n.m n.m. Small commercial & industrial 289 261 10.7 % 85 207.1 % Large commercial & industrial 295 276 6.9 % 155 78.1 % Public authorities & electric railroads 7 5 40.0 % n.m. Total delivery only 591 542 9.0 % 240 125.8 % Total electric retail revenues 5,559 5,543 0.3 % 5,590 (0.8 )% Other revenue (d) 577 561 2.9 % 511 9.8 % Total electric and other revenue $ 6,136 $ 6,104 0.5 % $ 6,101 n.m. (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from ComEd, which include the cost of electricity and the cost of transmission and distribution of the electricity. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. (c) As of December 31, 2008, there are a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative suppliers with total activity of less than 1 GWh and $1 million. (d) Other revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales. n.m. Not meaningful. 126 Results of Operations PECO 2008 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)Variance2008 vs. 2007 2006 Favorable(unfavorable)Variance2007 vs. 2006 Operating revenues $ 5,567 $ 5,613 $ (46 ) $ 5,168 $ 445 Purchased power expense and fuel expense 3,018 2,983 (35 ) 2,702 (281 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,549 2,630 (81 ) 2,466 164 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 731 630 (101 ) 628 (2 ) Depreciation and amortization 854 773 (81 ) 710 (63 ) Taxes other than income 265 280 15 262 (18 ) Total other operating expenses 1,850 1,683 (167 ) 1,600 (83 ) Operating income 699 947 (248 ) 866 81 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (226 ) (248 ) 22 (266 ) 18 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (16 ) (7 ) (9 ) (9 ) 2 Other, net 18 45 (27 ) 30 15 Total other income and deductions (224 ) (210 ) (14 ) (245 ) 35 Income before income taxes 475 737 (262 ) 621 116 Income taxes 150 230 80 180 (50 ) Net income 325 507 (182 ) 441 66 Preferred stock dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 321 $ 503 $ (182 ) $ 437 $ 66 Net Income. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. PECOs net income for 2008 compared to 2007 decreased due to lower operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense, reflecting unfavorable weather conditions, as well as higher operating and maintenance expenses primarily driven by an increase in the allowance for uncollectible accounts expense and increased scheduled CTC amortization, which was in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act, partially offset by the decrease in interest expense due to lower long term debt balances owed to PECO Energy Transition Trust (PETT). Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. PECOs net income for 2007 compared to 2006 increased primarily due to higher operating revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense, which reflected increased sales from favorable weather conditions, increased usage across all customer classes for both electric and gas, the completion of certain authorized rate increases that began in 2006 and the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute, as well as the recognition of income resulting from a reduction in the reserve after the successful PURTA tax appeal, partially offset by higher scheduled CTC amortization, which was in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. Operating Revenues, Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power for electric and revenue net of fuel expense for gas. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power and revenue net of fuel expense 127 are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower andFuel Expense Net Weather $ (84 ) $ (36 ) $ (48 ) $ (26 ) $ (20 ) $ (6 ) $ (110 ) $ (56 ) $ (54 ) Pricing (1 ) 28 (29 ) (1 ) 28 (29 ) Settlement of PJM billing dispute 10 (10 ) 10 (10 ) Transmission (4 ) 7 (11 ) (4 ) 7 (11 ) Volume 27 13 14 (11 ) (11 ) 16 2 14 Rate increases 8 8 54 54 62 62 Customer choice 6 6 6 6 Spot market activity 9 9 9 9 Off system gas activity (25 ) (27 ) 2 (25 ) (27 ) 2 Other 10 10 (9 ) (6 ) (3 ) 1 (6 ) 7 Total increase (decrease) $ (29 ) $ 45 $ (74 ) $ (17 ) $ (10 ) $ (7 ) $ (46 ) $ 35 $ (81 ) Weather Revenues. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Revenues were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating degree days and cooling degree days were 3% and 11% lower, respectively. Heating degree days and cooling degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool, respectively, a home or business. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was due to lower demand as a result of unfavorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Pricing Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues as a result of pricing reflected the reduction in distribution rates, for a total of $36 million, made to refund the PURTA tax settlement to customers. This rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the 128 regulatory liability related to the PURTA tax settlement that is reflected in taxes other than income. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenues of approximately $28 million related to higher energy market prices charged to certain large commercial and industrial customers (this increase is completely offset by a related increase in purchased power expense and has no impact on PECOs operating income), as well as other factors that were not individually significant. Purchased Power. The increase in purchased power as a result of pricing reflected the increased market prices for electricity, at which PECO procures electricity on behalf of certain large commercial and industrial customers. Settlement of PJM Billing Dispute Purchased Power. PECOs purchased power increased $10 million due to the impact of the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL during 2007. Transmission Revenues. Transmission revenue represents revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. Wholesale transmission revenue received from PJM decreased in 2008 as this revenue is based on the prior years summer peak, and the summer peak in 2007 was lower than the summer peak in 2006. Purchased Power. Transmission expenses represent wholesale transmission costs and other costs allocated by PJM, including charges for transmission system stabilization, default charges and regional transmission expansion plan costs. The increase in transmission expense was due to increased allocated costs from PJM related to charges for transmission system stabilization, partially offset by decreased wholesale transmission costs. Volume Revenues. The increase in electric revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across the residential customer class and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes. The decrease in gas revenues as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected decreased usage across the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. During the fourth quarter of 2008, PECO experienced a decrease in volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, and believes this trend may continue in 2009 due to the economic downturn. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across the residential customer class and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes. The decrease in fuel expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected decreased usage across the residential and small commercial and industrial customer classes. Rate increases Revenues. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases reflected the impact of the scheduled generation rate increase that became effective in mid January 2007 and remained in effect throughout 2008. This electric generation rate increase represented the last 129 scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase did not affect operating income as PECO incurred corresponding and offsetting purchased power expense under its PPA with Generation. The increase in gas revenues was due to higher realized prices for natural gas, which reflected PAPUC approved rates adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas cost clause. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2008 was 11% higher than the average rate for 2007. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power attributable to electric rate increases reflected the impact of the completion of the last scheduled generation rate increase under the PPA with Generation in mid January 2007. The increase in fuel expense reflected higher realized natural gas prices. Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2008 2007 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 24,800 29,200 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 2 % The increase in electric revenue and purchase power expense associated with customer choice reflected increased usage, exclusive of the effects of weather, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class and customers, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class, returning to PECO as their electric supplier. Spot market activity Revenues. Spot market electricity sales revenue results from surplus hourly energy that occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load exceeds the actual load on the delivery day. Spot market revenue is passed through as a credit to purchased power expense to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Purchased Power. Spot market electricity purchases result from scheduled energy transactions that are insufficient to cover the actual load and, occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load is not enough to serve the actual load on the delivery day. Also, spot market purchased power expense reflects the net spot market sales and purchases activity that is passed through to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Therefore, spot market activity has no impact on PECOs operating income. Off system gas activity Revenues. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. Fuel Expense. Fuel expense related to off system gas sales includes the cost of gas sold in the wholesale market. 130 Other Revenues. The increase in other electric revenues reflects various factors, none of which were individually significant. The decrease in other gas revenues reflects decreased late payment fees and other various factors, none of which were individually significant. Fuel Expense. The decrease in other fuel expense reflects various factors, none of which were individually significant. Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. The changes in PECOs operating revenues, purchased power and fuel expense and revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower Net OperatingRevenues FuelExpense Net OperatingRevenues PurchasedPower andFuel Expense Net Weather $ 108 $ 47 $ 61 $ 119 $ 98 $ 21 $ 227 $ 145 $ 82 Pricing (20 ) (3 ) (17 ) (20 ) (3 ) (17 ) Settlement of PJM billing dispute (10 ) 10 (10 ) 10 Transmission 4 (1 ) 5 4 (1 ) 5 Volume 82 32 50 4 6 (2 ) 86 38 48 Rate increases (decreases) 195 184 11 (114 ) (114 ) 81 70 11 Customer choice 8 8 8 8 Spot market activity 7 7 7 7 Off system gas activity 22 21 1 22 21 1 Other 19 (2 ) 21 11 8 3 30 6 24 Total increase $ 403 $ 262 $ 141 $ 42 $ 19 $ 23 $ 445 $ 281 $ 164 Weather Revenues. Revenues were higher due to favorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory, where heating degree days and cooling degree days were 16% and 15% higher, respectively. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power and fuel expense attributable to weather was due to higher demand as a result of favorable weather conditions in the PECO service territory relative to the prior year. Pricing Revenues. The decrease in electric revenues as a result of pricing primarily reflected the effects of rate blocking, whereby customer charges per unit of energy delivered were reduced when usage by certain commercial and industrial customers exceeds a certain threshold. Lower energy market prices charged to certain large commercial and industrial customers also contributed to the decrease in revenues, but as this decrease is completely offset by a related decrease in purchased power expense, it did not impact PECOs operating income. 131 Purchased Power. The decrease in purchased power as a result of pricing reflected the decreased market prices for electricity, at which PECO procures electricity on behalf of certain large commercial and industrial customers. Settlement of PJM billing dispute Purchased Power. PECOs purchased power expense decreased $10 million due to the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL in 2007. Transmission Revenues. Transmission revenues represent revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner. PECO earns revenue through PJM for the use of PECOs transmission facilities. Wholesale transmission revenue received from PJM increased in 2007 as this revenue is based on the prior years summer peak, and the summer peak in 2006 was higher than the summer peak in 2005. Purchased Power. Transmission expenses represent wholesale transmission costs and other costs allocated by PJM. Volume Revenues. The increase in revenues as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in expenses as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather and customer choice, reflected increased usage across all customer classes for electric and gas and the impact of an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes and gas customers in the residential and small commercial and industrial classes Rate increases (decreases) Revenues. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases of $195 million reflected $184 million related to a scheduled electric generation rate increase, which was effective for customer bills for electric generation service delivered after customers January 2007 meter readings. This electric generation rate increase represented the last scheduled rate increase through 2010 under PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement. This rate increase did not affect operating income as PECO incurred corresponding and offsetting purchased power expense under its PPA with Generation. The increase in electric revenues attributable to electric rate increases also reflected $11 million associated with the completion in January 2007 of scheduled CTC and distribution rate increases that began in 2006. The decrease in gas revenues was due to lower realized market prices for natural gas, which reflected PAPUC approved rates adjusted quarterly in accordance with the purchased gas cost clause. The average purchased gas cost rate per million cubic feet in effect for 2007 was 17% lower than the average rate for 2006. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The increase in purchased power expense attributable to electric rate increases reflected the scheduled generation rate increase under the PPA with Generation, which directly offset the increase in revenues. The decrease in fuel expense reflected lower realized market prices for natural gas. 132 Customer choice Revenues and Purchased Power. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. PECOs operating income is not affected by customer choice since any increase or decrease in revenues is completely offset by any related increase or decrease in purchased power expense. 2007 2006 Retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier: Number of customers at period end 29,200 34,400 Percentage of total retail customers 2 % 2 % The increase in electric revenue and purchased power expense associated with customer choice reflected customers, primarily from the small commercial and industrial customer class, returning to PECO as their electric supplier. Spot market activity Revenues. Spot market electricity sales revenue results from surplus hourly energy that occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load exceeds the actual load on the delivery day. Spot market revenue is passed through as a credit to purchased power expense to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Purchased Power. Spot market electricity purchases result from scheduled energy transactions that are insufficient to cover the actual load and, occurs whenever the energy supply scheduled in the day ahead market to serve the expected load is not enough to serve the actual load on the delivery day. Also, spot market purchased power expense reflects the net spot market sales and purchases activity that is passed through to Generation in accordance with the PPA. Therefore, spot market activity has no impact on PECOs operating income. Off system gas activity Revenues. Off system gas sales revenues represent sales of excess gas supply on the wholesale market and the release of pipeline capacity. Fuel Expense. The fuel expense related to off system gas sales includes the cost of gas sold in the wholesale market. Other Revenues. The increase in electric and gas revenues reflected increased late payment fees and other factors, none of which was individually significant. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. The decrease in purchased power expense and the increase in fuel expense were due to various factors, none of which was individually significant. 133 Operating and Maintenance Expense. The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ 89 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits 4 Contracting 1 Injuries and damages expense (2 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 101 The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ 13 Contracting (a) 12 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits 6 Environmental reserve (b) 4 Injuries and damages expense (c) 3 Incremental storm related costs (39 ) Severance related expenses (5 ) PSEG merger integration costs incurred in 2006 (4 ) Other 3 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 2 (a) Reflects higher 2007 contracting expense primarily associated with vegetation management services and tax consulting. (b) Reflects lower expense in 2006 due to a settlement related to a Superfund site. (c) Reflects higher 2006 storm related costs primarily associated with a significant storm in the third quarter of 2006. Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense. The additional expense is primarily due to updated reserve estimates to reflect anticipated increases in customer account charge offs associated with recent and upcoming increases in customer terminations, as well as, the further deterioration in actual and projected collections of PECOs higher risk customer accounts receivable. PECO experienced an increase in the aging of its high risk accounts receivable balances. The higher expense is in part as a result of a previous temporary suspension of certain collection processes during a billing system conversion project in 2006 and 2007. Finally, enrollment has also increased in customer assistance programs for low income customers, which results in the eventual forgiveness of certain outstanding account balances. Management believes the current overall negative economic conditions are contributing to the increase in uncollectible accounts expense in 2008 and may negatively impact future uncollectible accounts expense relative to historical levels. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs. 2006 CTC amortization (a) $ 78 $ 69 Accelerated amortization of PECO billing system (b) (9 ) Other 3 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 81 $ 63 134 (a) PECOs CTC amortization is in accordance with its original settlement under the Pennsylvania Competition Act. (b) In January 2005, as part of a broader systems strategy at PECO associated with the proposed merger with PSEG, Exelons Board of Directors approved the implementation of a new customer information and billing system at PECO. The approval of this new system required the accelerated amortization of PECOs existing system through 2006 and the recognition of additional amortization expense of $9 million in 2006. The new system was implemented in 2006. Taxes Other Than Income. The decrease in taxes other than income for 2008 compared to 2007 and the increase in 2007 compared to 2006 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2008 vs.2007 Increase(Decrease)2007 vs.2006 PURTA Amortization (a) $ (36 ) $ Reduction of reserve related to PURTA tax appeal (b) 17 (17 ) Sales and use tax 3 5 Taxes on utility revenues (c) 2 25 State franchise tax adjustment in 2006 (d) 7 Other (1 ) (2 ) (Decrease) increase in taxes other than income $ (15 ) $ 18 (a) The decrease is due to the amortization of the regulatory liability recorded in connection with the 2007 PURTA settlement which began in January 2008. The impact of the amortization on operating income is offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in the distribution rates to refund the PURTA taxes to customers. (b) On March 27, 2007, PECO prevailed in a Pennsylvania Supreme Court case in which PECO had contested the assessment of PURTA taxes applicable to 1997. As a result, PECO reduced the reserve associated with this matter. (c) The increase in tax expense in 2008 compared to 2007 was due to a gross receipts tax rate increase that became effective on January 1, 2008, partially offset by a decrease in revenues. The increase in tax expense in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to the increase in revenues. These increases were offset by corresponding increases in revenues, as these taxes were collected from customers and remitted to the taxing authorities. (d) Represents the reduction of tax accruals in 2006 following settlements related to prior year tax assessments. Interest Expense, Net. The decrease in interest expense, net for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to lower long term debt balances owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Other, Net. The decrease in other, net for 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the impacts of interest income recorded in 2007 as a result of the successful PURTA tax appeal and interest income recorded in 2007 related to the SSCM settlement, partially offset by an increase in interest income related to uncertain income tax positions. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of other, net. The increase in other, net for 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to interest income recorded as a result of the successful PURTA tax appeal and interest income related to uncertain tax positions, partially offset by the impacts of a 2006 investment tax credit refund and a 2006 research and development credit refund. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of other, net. Effective Income Tax Rate Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. PECOs effective income tax rate was 31.6% for 2008 compared to 31.2% for 2007. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of the benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007 partially offset by reduced income in 2008 while permanent differences remained relatively constant. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 135 Year ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006. PECOs effective income tax rate was 31.2% for 2007 compared to 29.0% for 2006. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an investment tax credit refund and a research and development credit refund in 2006, partially offset by the benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWhs) 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Full service (a) Residential 13,287 13,446 (1.2 )% 12,796 5.1 % Small commercial & industrial 8,211 8,288 (0.9 )% 7,818 6.0 % Large commercial & industrial 16,474 16,522 (0.3 )% 15,898 3.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 909 930 (2.3 )% 906 2.6 % Total full service 38,881 39,186 (0.8 )% 37,418 4.7 % Delivery only (b) Residential 30 42 (28.6 )% 61 (31.1 )% Small commercial & industrial 469 571 (17.9 )% 671 (14.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 3 14 (78.6 )% 35 (60.0 )% Total delivery only 502 627 (19.9 )% 767 (18.3 )% Total retail deliveries 39,383 39,813 (1.1 )% 38,185 4.3 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. Electric Revenue 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Full service (a) Residential $ 1,916 $ 1,948 (1.6 )% $ 1,780 9.4 % Small commercial & industrial 1,028 1,042 (1.3 )% 943 10.5 % Large commercial & industrial 1,406 1,386 1.4 % 1,286 7.8 % Public authorities & electric railroads 87 89 (2.2 )% 83 7.2 % Total full service 4,437 4,465 (0.6 )% 4,092 9.1 % Delivery only (b) Residential 2 4 (50.0 )% 5 (20.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 25 30 (16.7 )% 36 (16.7 )% Large commercial & industrial 0.0 % 1 (100.0 )% Total delivery only 27 34 (20.6 )% 42 (19.0 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,464 4,499 (0.8 )% 4,134 8.8 % Other revenue (c) 282 276 2.2 % 238 16.0 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,746 $ 4,775 (0.6 )% $ 4,372 9.2 % (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. 136 PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in million cubic feet (mmcf)) 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Retail sales 56,110 58,968 (4.8 )% 50.578 16.6 % Transportation 27,624 27,632 0.0 % 25,527 8.3 % Total 83,734 86,600 (3.3 )% 76,105 13.8 % Revenue 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs.2007 2006 % Change2007 vs.2006 Retail sales $ 795 $ 784 1.4 % $ 770 1.8 % Transportation 19 17 11.8 % 16 6.3 % Resales and other 7 37 (81.1 )% 10 n.m. Total gas revenue $ 821 $ 838 (2.0 )% $ 796 5.3 % n.m. Not meaningful Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $957 million, $4.8 billion, $952 million and $574 million, respectively. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. In the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a new letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement for certain tax exempt financings supported by first mortgage bonds. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. To manage cash flows and its capital structure, as more fully described below, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2008, 2007 or 2006. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Future acquisitions that Exelon may undertake may involve external debt financing or the issuance of additional Exelon common stock. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. 137 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather, customer choice, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. During 2008, Exelons unfunded status of its pension plans increased significantly, primarily due to lower than expected 2008 asset returns, which is expected to result in increased benefit costs and required funding contributions in future years. Such increases could be material to 2009 and subsequent years. The Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (WRERA), which was signed into law on December 23, 2008, grants plan sponsors relief from funding requirements and benefit restrictions, and also provides some technical corrections to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act). One such technical correction, referred to as asset smoothing, allows the use of asset averaging, including expected returns (subject to certain limitations), for a 24 month period in the determination of funding requirements. Exelon has not yet determined whether it will elect this option. If Exelon elects the asset smoothing option, it would provide Exelon the opportunity to defer certain contributions to later years or potentially mitigate future contributions through market recovery. If Exelon does not elect the asset smoothing option, the minimum pension contributions as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and the Act, as well as discretionary contributions to avoid benefit restrictions, are expected to be approximately $162 million, $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion and $664 million in 2009, 2010 2011, 2012 2013 and 2014, respectively, with an aggregate of $4 billion during the periods. If Exelon elected the asset smoothing option, the minimum pension contributions are expected to be approximately $162 million, $832 million, $2.6 billion and $578 million in 2009, 2010 2011, 2012 2013 and 2014, respectively, with an aggregate of $4.1 billion during the periods. The expected increase in minimum required contributions for pension and OPEB costs through 2014 that cannot be funded from cash from operations may need to be funded through external financings. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding Exelons pension plans and see Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Obligations within Liquidity and Capital Resources for the expected pension minimum funding requirements, including discretionary contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions, for the years 2009 2013. During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified nuclear decommissioning trust fund to a qualified nuclear decommissioning trust fund. As a result of recent interpretative guidance published by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to this provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008, which resulted in net positive cash flow of approximately $280 million in total for 2008 and 2009 combined. In addition, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The ultimate outcome of this matter could result in unfavorable or favorable impacts to Exelons and ComEds results of operations, cash flows and financial positions, and such impacts could be material. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 138 The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ending December 31, 2008 and 2007: 2008 2007 Variance Net income $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1 Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,400 2,845 555 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (230 ) (204 ) (26 ) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (383 ) (365 ) (18 ) Counterparty collateral, net 1,027 (516 ) 1,543 Net cash flows provided by operations $ 6,551 $ 4,496 $ 2,055 (a) Includes depreciation, amortization and accretion, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, pension and other postretirement benefits expense, other decommissioning related activities, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, impairment charges, pension contributions and postretirement healthcare benefit payments and other non cash items. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on non cash operating activities. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2008 and 2007 by Registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ 6,551 $ 4,496 Generation 4,445 2,994 ComEd 1,079 520 PECO 969 980 Changes in Exelons, Generations and ComEds cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in the respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. The significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Exelon In 2007, Exelon contributed $50 million to the Exelon Foundation, a nonconsolidated not for profit Illinois corporation. The Exelon Foundation was established in the fourth quarter of 2007 to serve educational and environmental philanthropic purposes. The Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 was enacted in the first quarter of 2008 and includes an incentive that allows companies to claim an accelerated depreciation deduction for Federal income tax purposes equal to 50% of the cost basis of certain property placed in service during 2008 and to a lesser extent in 2009. Exelon received $248 million in 2008 as a result of this special tax depreciation provision. Generation During 2008, Generation had net collections of counterparty collateral of $1,029 million compared to $(518) million of net disbursements of counterparty collateral in 2007 and $431 million of net collections of counterparty collateral in 2006. The increase in collections was primarily due to changes in market conditions that resulted in an increased mark to market asset position. When Generation is in a mark to market liability position and is required to post collateral with its counterparties, the collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, commercial paper or letters of credit. 139 During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $274 million in 2008 and $331 million in 2007. Generation received a net cash payment from State Line of approximately $228 million, after adjustments, in consideration for the termination of the State Line PPA and the purchase of coal inventories on hand (and in transit) and other assets. During 2008 and 2007, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd under its supplier forward agreement and its PPA with ComEd, which expired on December 31, 2006, increased (decreased) by $99 million and $(137) million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, Generations accounts receivable from PECO under its PPA with PECO increased (decreased) by $6 million and $(32) million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, Generation had net payments of approximately $123 million and net receipts of approximately $28 million, respectively, related to option premiums, primarily due to greater hedging activity in 2008 compared to 2007. ComEd As a result of upgraded credit ratings to investment grade, ComEd has been making monthly payments to its energy suppliers, including Generation, under supplier forward contracts since April 2008. Prior to the credit ratings upgrade, ComEd made semi monthly payments to its energy suppliers. Starting in June 2008, ComEd also began procuring power and renewable energy credits under its request for proposal (RFP) contracts and started to settle the financial swap with Generation. During 2008 and 2007, ComEds payables to Generation for energy purchases increased (decreased) by $99 million and $(137) million, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers increased by $41 million and $72 million, respectively. As part of the 2007 Illinois Settlement and its rate relief programs, ComEd contributed approximately $13 million and $41 million to rate relief programs in 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the rate relief programs. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, ComEd had net over recovered energy costs and net under recovered energy costs of $29 million and $97 million, respectively. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ (3,378 ) $ (2,909 ) Generation (1,967 ) (1,424 ) ComEd (958 ) (1,015 ) PECO (377 ) (337 ) 140 Capital expenditures by registrant and business segment for 2008 and projected amounts for 2009 are as follows: 2008 2009 Generation (a) $ 1,699 $ 1,957 ComEd 953 1,000 PECO 392 416 Other (b) 73 71 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 3,117 $ 3,444 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Projected capital expenditures and other investments by the Registrants are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Approximately 46% of the projected 2009 capital expenditures at Generation are for the acquisition of nuclear fuel, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Actual 2008 capital expenditures were higher than the projected 2008 capital expenditures previously disclosed in the 2007 Annual Report on Form 10 K as a result of accelerating capital expenditures in 2008 to take advantage of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 which provides accelerated tax depreciation benefits for assets purchased and placed in service during the year. Exelon anticipates that Generations capital expenditures during 2009 will be funded by internally generated funds, borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. As discussed under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, Generation has begun the application process that would allow for the possible construction of a new nuclear plant in Texas, and Generation is considering the development of a 600 megawatt combined cycle natural gas plant in Pennsylvania. While Generation has not made a decision to build these plants, should Generation decide to build these or other plants in the future, substantial additional resources would be required. Such capital projects would have a material impact on the use of Exelons and Generations capital resources. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 51% and 52% of the projected 2009 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve the reliability of their respective transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business and customer growth including capacity expansion. ComEd and PECO are each continuing to evaluate their total 2009 capital spending requirements due to the recent decline in economic conditions and projections of load growth, which may reduce total 2009 capital expenditures. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund their capital expenditures during 2009 by internally generated funds and the issuance of debt. Other significant investing activities for Exelon and Generation for 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Exelon Exelon contributed $9 million and $93 million to its investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Generation During 2007, Generation received approximately $42 million from Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of expenditures previously incurred for nuclear plant decommissioning activities related to its retired units. 141 On February 9, 2007, Tamuin International Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Generation, sold its 49.5% ownership interests in TEG and TEP to a subsidiary of AES Corporation for $95 million in cash plus certain purchase price adjustments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows provided by (used in) used in financing activities for 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ (2,213 ) $ (1,500 ) Generation (1,470 ) (1,571 ) ComEd (161 ) 547 PECO (587 ) (638 ) Debt. Debt activity for 2008 and 2007 by registrant was as follows: Company Issuance of long term debt in 2008 Use of proceeds ComEd $700 million of First Mortgage 5.80% Bonds, Series 108, due March 15, 2018 Used to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility, to provide for the retirement at scheduled maturity in May 2008 of $120 million of First Mortgage bonds, Series 83, and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038 Used to retire $295 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, to refinance $155 million of trust preferred securities and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (a)(b) Used to refinance $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (a)(b) Used to refinance $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 (a)(b) Used to refinance a portion of the outstanding tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, 2003 B and 2003 D, due May 15, 2017, November 1, 2019 and January 15, 2014, respectively. PECO $150 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 4.00% due December 1, 2012 Used to refinance First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable auction rate due December 1, 2012. PECO $500 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.35% due March 1, 2018 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. PECO $300 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.60% Series due October 15, 2013 Used to refinance short term debt. 142 (a) First Mortgage bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were issued to refinance variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) During the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement to variable rate tax exempt bonds. The new facility and letters of credit issued under the new facility will expire by June 27, 2009. Company Issuance of long term debt in 2007 Use of proceeds Generation $700 million of 6.20% Senior Notes, due October 1, 2017 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. Generation $46 million of Exempt Facilities Revenue Bonds with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 Will be used to finance a portion of the construction and installation costs of emissions control facilities at Keystone Generating Station. ComEd $300 million of First Mortgage 5.90% Bonds, Series 103, due March 15, 2036 Used to refinance outstanding commercial paper and to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility. ComEd $425 million of First Mortgage 6.15% Bonds, Series 106, due September 15, 2017 Used to repay borrowings made under its revolving credit agreement. PECO $175 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.70% Series due March 15, 2037 Used to supplement working capital previously financed through sales of commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. 143 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2008 Exelon $21 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $3 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $295 million of 3.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, due February 1, 2008 ComEd $274 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 ComEd $155 million of 8.50% Subordinated Debentures related to ComEd Financing II, due January 15, 2027 ComEd $120 million of 8.00% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83, due May 15, 2008 ComEd $100 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2002, due April 15, 2013 (a) ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 (a) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 (a) ComEd $42 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 B, due November 1, 2019 (a) ComEd $40 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, due May 15, 2017 (a) ComEd $20 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 D, due January 15, 2014 (a) ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $4 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate, due December 1, 2012 PECO $450 million of 3.5% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due May 1, 2008 PECO $207 million of 6.13% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2008 PECO $369 million of 7.625% PETT Transition Bonds, due March 1, 2009 PECO $33 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 (a) First Mortgage bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture that secured variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were refinanced. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 144 Company Retirement of long term debt in 2007 Exelon $88 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million of 6.33% note payable, due August 8, 2009 ComEd $145 million of 7.625% note payable, due January 15, 2007 ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $17 million of variable rate special agreement accounts receivable, due November 2010 ComEd $138 million of 5.63% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due June 25, 2007 (a)(b) ComEd $236 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 PECO $641 million of 6.13% PETT, due September 1, 2008 PECO $30 million of 7.625% PETT, due March 1, 2009 (a) Amount includes $17 million previously reflected in prepaid interest. This amount did not impact ComEds Consolidated Statement of Operations or ComEds Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. (b) ComEd applied $8 million of previously prepaid balances against the long term debt to ComEd Transitional Funding Trust. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Registrants debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions in 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: 2008 2007 Exelon $ 1,335 $ 1,180 Generation 1,545 2,357 PECO 484 566 Exelon paid dividends of $330 million, $329 million, $330 million, and $346 million on March 10, 2008, June 10, 2008, September 10, 2008, and December 10, 2008, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2008, May 15, 2008, August 15, 2008, and November 14, 2008, respectively. On January 27, 2009, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2009 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 13, 2009. Exelon paid dividends of $296 million, $296 million, $297 million, and $291 million on March 10, 2007, June 11, 2007, September 10, 2007 and December 10, 2007, respectively, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 15, 2007, May 15, 2007, August 15, 2007 and November 15, 2007, respectively. During 2008 and 2007, ComEd did not pay any dividend to manage cash flows and its capital structure. On January 26, 2009, the ComEd board declared a dividend of $0.472 per share on its common stock. ComEds Board of Directors will continue to assess ComEds ability to pay a dividend in future periods. Share Repurchases. During 2008, Exelon purchased $500 million of common stock under Exelons accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock. During 2007, Exelon purchased $37 million of common stock under Exelons 2004 share repurchase program and $1.25 billion of common stock 145 under Exelons 2007 accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of forward contracts indexed to Exelons own common stock. On September 2, 2008, Exelons Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of Exelons outstanding common stock. Exelon management has determined to defer indefinitely any share repurchases. This decision was made in light of a variety of factors, including: developments affecting the world economy and commodity markets, including those for electricity and gas; the continued uncertainty in capital and credit markets and the potential impact of those events on Exelons future cash needs; projected cash needs to support investment in the business, including maintenance capital and nuclear uprates; and value added growth opportunities, including possible acquisitions such as the proposed acquisition of NRG Energy, Inc. See Note 16 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Intercompany Money Pool. Generations net borrowings from the Exelon Corporate intercompany money pool did not change during 2008 and 2007. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon Corporate intercompany money pool did not change during 2008. PECOs net borrowings from the Exelon Corporate intercompany money pool decreased $45 million in 2007. Short Term Borrowings. During 2008, Exelon and PECO repaid $95 million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2008, ComEd repaid $310 million of outstanding borrowings under ComEds credit agreement. During 2007, Exelon, ComEd and PECO (repaid) issued $(59) million, $(60) million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2007, ComEd issued $370 million of short term borrowings under ComEds credit agreement. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 2007 Exelon $ 1,038 $ 1,020 ComEd 429 349 PECO 609 671 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 by registrant were as follows: Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 2007 Generation $ 86 $ 54 ComEd 14 28 PECO (a) 320 338 (a) $284 million and $306 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the parent receivable. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $130 million and $215 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Exelons other financing activities during 2008 and 2007 include $60 million and $97 million, respectively, of excess tax benefits, which represent the tax deduction in excess of the tax benefit related to compensation cost recognized for stock options exercised. 146 Credit Matters Recent Market Conditions The Registrants believe they have sufficient liquidity despite the current disruption of the capital and credit markets. The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flow from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and a large, diversified credit facility ($7.3 billion in aggregate total commitments and $6.9 billion available as of December 31, 2008, of which no financial institution, assuming announced consolidations, has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation and PECO and 12% for ComEd). Select Registrants also have additional letter of credit facilities used solely to enhance tax exempt variable rate debt. Certain of these letters of credit will expire in 2009 ($311 million and $194 million at Generation and ComEd, respectively), which the Registrants plan to extend or substitute. While Exelon, Generation and PECO accessed the commercial paper market intermittently in 2008, they were able to fund their short term liquidity needs with commercial paper, when necessary. Although the overall cost of issuing commercial paper was lower in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to recent Federal Reserve Bank actions and guarantee programs, credit spreads during 2008 generally widened based on the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rate and the actual interest rates on commercial paper issued by Exelon, Generation and PECO. ComEd has been utilizing its credit facility to fund its short term liquidity needs. The Registrants routinely review liquidity sufficiency, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. As the national and world wide financial crisis has worsened in recent months, the Registrants have continued to closely monitor events and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of a longer term disruption in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. If Generation and ComEd lost their investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, they would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $830 million and $282 million, respectively, which is well within their current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion and $751 million, respectively. On October 21, 2008, Standard and Poors Corporation downgraded PECOs corporate credit rating to BBB from BBB+. Subsequently, PECO provided PJM $90 million in collateral in the form of a letter of credit. If PECO were to have lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2008, it would have been required to provide collateral of an additional $20 million in accordance with PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $135 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of $481 million. On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (Lehman) filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of New York. Exelon, Generation, ComEd, and PECO have or had various business relationships with subsidiaries of Lehman. The Registrants no longer have any credit facility commitments with Lehman as of September 30, 2008. Generation is a counterparty with Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc., a subsidiary of Lehman, in wholesale energy marketing transactions. The obligations of Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc. are guaranteed by Lehman, and as a result of the Lehman bankruptcy, Generation exercised its right to terminate its forward contract with Lehman Brothers Commodity Services, Inc. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon and Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Commodity Services Inc., based on Generations wholesale energy marketing business and market prices, was $22 million pre tax, which was fully reserved through a charge to the statement of operations during the year ended December 31, 2008. 147 Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper. Generation and PECO meet their short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from the intercompany money pool, and ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through borrowings under its credit facility. While short term borrowing costs have not been significant to date, further disruptions in the credit markets may result in increased costs for commercial paper borrowings. Continued disruptions in the credit markets could limit the ability of the Registrants to issue commercial paper, which may increase their reliance on their respective revolving credit facilities for short term liquidity purposes. The Registrants may use their respective credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including meeting short term funding requirements and the issuance of letters of credit. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants credit facilities. At December 31, 2008, the Registrants had the following aggregate bank commitments and available capacity under the credit agreements and the indicated amounts of outstanding commercial paper: Borrower Aggregate BankCommitment (a) OutstandingCommercialPaper OutstandingLetters ofCredit Available Capacity underRevolving CreditAgreements (b) Exelon Corporate $ 957 $ 56 $ 5 $ 952 Generation 4,834 127 4,707 ComEd 952 141 751 PECO 574 95 93 481 (a) Represents the total bank commitments to the borrower under credit agreements to which the borrower is a party. (b) Available capacity represents the unused bank commitments under the borrowers credit agreements net of outstanding letters of credit and credit facility draws. The amount of commercial paper outstanding does not reduce the available capacity under the credit agreements. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the LIBOR plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 162.5 basis points for the unsecured facility. The average interest rates on short term debt (facility borrowings and commercial paper) for 2008 for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO were approximately 3.22%, 3.13%, 3.91% and 3.22%, respectively. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The interest coverage ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and interest on nonrecourse debt. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the year ended December 31, 2008: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2008, the interest coverage ratios at the Registrants were as follows: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Interest coverage ratio 12.20 28.44 3.83 6.15 148 An event of default under any of the Registrants credit facilities will not constitute an event of default under any of the other Registrants credit facilities, except that a bankruptcy or other event of default in the payment of principal, premium or indebtedness in principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate by Generation under its credit facility will constitute an event of default under the Exelon credit facility. Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. The following table shows the Registrants securities ratings at December 31, 2008: Securities MoodysInvestorsService Standard &PoorsCorporation Fitch Ratings. Exelon Corporate Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Baa3 BBB BBB Senior secured debt Baa2 BBB+ BBB Commercial paper P3 A3 B PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P1 A2 F2 Transition bonds (a) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. On March 19, 2008, S&P upgraded ComEds long term unsecured security ratings from B+ to BBB as a result of a change in methodology by S&P. On September 11, 2008, S&P upgraded ComEds corporate rating from BB to BBB and upgraded its long term, secured security ratings from BBB to BBB+ to reflect the improving regulatory environment in Illinois. S&P also increased ComEds commercial paper rating to A 3 from B. On October 3, 2008, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) upgraded the long term senior unsecured rating of ComEd to Baa3 from Ba1 and the commercial paper rating to Prime 3 from Not Prime. ComEds senior secured rating of Baa2 remains unchanged, and ComEds rating outlook is stable. A Moodys press release indicated that the upgrade largely reflects our assessment of the distribution rate case decision and also factors in the improved financial flexibility that exists at ComEd as the first mortgage collateral, which had previously secured the companys $1 billion revolving credit facility was released and replaced by a similar sized unsecured revolving credit facility. On October 21, 2008, S&P lowered its corporate credit rating on Exelon Corporate, Generation and PECO to BBB from BBB+. S&P lowered the senior unsecured ratings of Exelon Corporate to BBB from BBB and of Generation to BBB from BBB+. The senior secured rating of PECO was lowered to A from A. In addition, the ratings of Exelon Corporate and all of its subsidiaries, including ComEd, were placed on CreditWatch with a negative outlook. S&P indicated concerns about Exelons potential credit position related to the proposed offer to acquire NRG. The short term commercial paper ratings of Exelon Corporate and all of its subsidiaries were affirmed by S&P. This downgrade triggered a reduction in PECOs unsecured credit limit in accordance with PJMs credit policy. PECO issued a letter of credit to PJM for $90 million to restore the amount of its unsecured credit. Generation was not required to provide collateral as a result of this downgrade. No collateral requirements of Exelon and ComEd were impacted by this downgrade. 149 On October 21, 2008, Fitch Ratings, Ltd. placed Exelon and Generation on Rating Watch Negative following the announcement of the proposed offer for NRG. On November 12, 2008, Moodys Investors Service placed the ratings of Exelon, Generation and PECO under review for possible downgrade. In addition, S&P placed the short term ratings of Exelon, Generation and PECO on CreditWatch with negative implications. These actions were taken after Exelon commenced the exchange offer for NRGs shares. The terms of the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd provide that: (1) if ComEd is upgraded to investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or S&P and then is later downgraded below investment grade, or (2) if Generation is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or S&P, collateral postings would be required by the applicable party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. As previously noted above, ComEd was upgraded to investment grade by S&P, and, therefore, the aforementioned condition has been satisfied such that if ComEd is later downgraded, it could be subject to margining depending on market prices at that time. However, under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation under the swap contract. Exelon or any of the Registrants might experience a downgrade in its credit ratings by one or more notches if the transaction with NRG is completed. Exelon remains committed to investment grade ratings and is committed that the NRG transaction will not cause Exelon or its subsidiaries to go below investment grade for senior unsecured debt. Potential measures to protect investment grade ratings include issuing additional equity, sale of assets, or reducing dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. None of the Registrants borrowings is subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under the Registrants credit facilities. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Variable Rate Debt As of December 31, 2008, Generation had $566 million outstanding in tax exempt variable rate debt, of which $520 million is credit enhanced by letters of credit and $46 million is unenhanced. The $46 million of unenhanced bonds remarket during the first quarter, where there may or may not be buyers willing to purchase the securities. If the securities fail to remarket, Generation has the option to hold the bonds for a period of time and wait until there are willing buyers. Generation also has the option to issue a letter of credit to credit enhance the bonds for the variable rate mode, or Generation has the option to change to another mode, including put bonds or fixed rate to maturity. For the $520 million in tax exempt variable rate debt that is backed by letters of credit, $307 million in principal of letters of credit expire during the third quarter of 2009. Generation anticipates renewing the letters of credit with existing banks or entering into letters of credit with new banks. If letters of credit are not available or are not economical, Generation will be prepared to hold the bonds for a period of time or change the bonds to another interest rate mode, including put bonds or fixed rate to maturity. Generation believes that the final results of the unenhanced debt, the letters of credit or possible mode changes will not be material. The remaining $213 million in principal of tax exempt variable rate debt at Generation has letters of credit that expire during the second quarter of 2010. 150 As of December 31, 2008, ComEd had $191 million outstanding in tax exempt variable rate debt that is credit enhanced by letters of credit and expire during the second quarter of 2009. ComEd anticipates renewing the letters of credit with existing banks, or entering into letters of credit with new banks. If letters of credit are not available or are not economical, ComEd will be prepared to hold the bonds for a period of time or change the bonds to another interest rate mode, including put bonds or fixed rate to maturity. ComEd believes the final results of the letters of credit or possible mode changes will not be material. As of January 1, 2008, PECO had $154 million of tax exempt variable auction rate securities outstanding. On March 5, 2008, PECO issued $150 million of 4% fixed rate tax exempt First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due December 1, 2012, to refinance three series of outstanding variable auction rate, tax exempt bonds. On May 1, 2008, PECO used available cash and redeemed its remaining $4.2 million of tax exempt variable auction rate bonds. Investments in Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to offset inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the values of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocations in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. With regards to equity securities, Generations investment policy establishes limits on the concentration of equity holdings in any one company and also in any one industry. With regards to its fixed income securities, Generations investment policy limits the concentrations of the types of bonds that may be purchased for the trust funds and also requires a minimum percentage of the portfolio to have investment grade ratings (minimum credit quality ratings of Baa3 by Moodys Investor Service, BBB by S&P and BBB by Fitch Ratings) while requiring that the overall portfolio maintain a minimum credit quality rating of A2. See Executive Overview for further information regarding the trust funds and the NRCs minimum funding requirements and related liquidity ramifications. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure At December 31, 2008, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 47 % 28 % 40 % 35 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 6 2 23 Common equity 46 57 39 Members equity 72 Preferred securities 1 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 1 2 (a) As of December 31, 2008, PECOs capital structure, excluding the impacts of the deduction from shareholders equity of the $500 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table above) would consist of 44% common equity, 1% preferred securities, 2% notes payable and 53% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. (b) Includes approximately $1.5 billion, $200 million and $1.3 billion owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under FIN 46 R. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing transition bonds to securitize intangible transition property consisting of CTCs of PECO or mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding FIN 46 R. 151 Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2008 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2008: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2008Contributed (Borrowed) Generation $ 288 $ 328 $ PECO 328 405 BSC 6 92 Exelon 183 Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2008, the Registrants had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, the current financial condition of the company, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd had $389 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $399 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2008, PECO had $975 million in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC expiring in May 2009. PECO plans to seek additional authority from the PAPUC during the first or second quarter of 2009. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from the FERC that expire on December 31, 2009 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC with its market based rate authority. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital 152 account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2008, Exelon had retained earnings of $6.8 billion, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,323 million, ComEds retained earnings of $170 million consisting of an unappropriated retained deficit of $1,639 million partially offset by $1,809 million of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends, and PECOs retained earnings of $389 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owns interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that own synthetic fuel producing facilities. Prior to December 31, 2007, Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the Internal Revenue Code provided tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. The ability to earn these synthetic fuel tax credits expired on December 31, 2007 and, as such, the synthetic fuel producing facilities that Exelon had interests in ceased operations on or before December 31, 2007. In March 2008, the IRS published the 2007 oil Reference Price which resulted in a 67% phase out of tax credits for calendar year 2007 that reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $258 million to $85 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Exelon generated approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments. As a result of the phase out of tax credits in 2007 and the timing of the realization of tax benefits earned in prior years, Exelon collected approximately $200 million of cash in 2008, which includes $44 million collected in the first quarter of 2008 related to the settlement of derivatives that were entered into in the normal course of trading operations in 2005 to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 11,407 $ 27 $ 2,410 $ 1,377 $ 7,593 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 1,514 319 805 390 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 6,770 627 1,160 881 4,102 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 675 94 72 50 459 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 446 5 441 Capital leases 40 2 5 4 29 Operating leases 762 68 124 117 453 Purchase power obligations (c) 3,568 526 708 543 1,791 Fuel purchase agreements 6,504 1,325 1,774 1,185 2,220 Other purchase obligations (d) 1,076 333 420 268 55 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (e) 24 6 12 6 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,015 1,015 Pension minimum funding requirement (f) 4,011 162 1,647 1,538 664 Other postretirement benefits minimum funding requirement (g) 256 56 98 102 Total contractual obligations $ 38,068 $ 3,550 $ 9,235 $ 6,071 $ 18,771 $ 441 153 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2008. (b) As of December 31, 2008, Exelons FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $430 million and $16 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the tables represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2008. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreement with the City of Chicago, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (f) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as well as discretionary contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. As further described in Cash Flows From Operating Activities above, WRERA clarified that asset smoothing is permitted in accordance with the Pension Protection Act of 2006. Exelon has not yet determined whether it will elect this option. If Exelon elected this option, the total contributions in the table above would be $162 million, $832 million, $2,563 million and $578 million in 2009, 2010 2011, 2012 2013 and 2014, respectively. The minimum required contributions for years after 2014 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may choose to make additional discretionary contributions. (g) These amounts represent estimated minimum other postretirement benefit contributions required under a PAPUC rate order. These minimum contributions represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2014 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary. Exelons commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 430 $ 430 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 18 7 11 Surety bonds (c) 88 7 81 Performance guarantees (d) 296 200 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (e) 207 162 40 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (f) 1,997 1,997 Lease guarantees (g) 131 3 9 119 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (h) 14 8 4 2 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (i) 14 4 8 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (j) 152 128 24 Construction commitments (k) 341 123 135 83 Total commitments $ 3,688 $ 1,069 $ 225 $ 191 $ 2,203 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2008, Exelon had $225 million of outstanding letters of credit (non debt) issued under its $6.6 billion credit agreements. Guarantees of $10 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amounts of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $566 million at Generation and $191 million at ComEd are reflected in long term debt in Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. 154 (d) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (e) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (f) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (g) Lease guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure payments on building leases. (h) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the 2007 City of Chicago Settlement. (i) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, $1 million is included as a liability on Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 related to this guarantee. (j) See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (k) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds and PECOs construction commitments. Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment Due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 2,476 $ 10 $ 700 $ $ 1,766 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 884 131 235 165 353 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 24 2 22 Capital leases 40 2 5 4 29 Operating leases 449 27 50 49 323 Purchase power obligations (c) 3,568 526 708 543 1,791 Fuel purchase agreements 5,999 1,168 1,615 1,107 2,109 Other purchase commitments (d) 690 167 293 191 39 Pension minimum funding requirement (e) 123 20 42 42 19 Spent nuclear fuel obligations 1,015 1,015 Total contractual obligations $ 15,268 $ 2,053 $ 3,648 $ 2,101 $ 7,444 $ 22 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2008. (b) As of December 31, 2008, Generations FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $14 million and $10 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include tolling agreements and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2008. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (e) These amounts represent Generations estimated minimum pension contributions to the AmerGen postretirement benefit plans as required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information). As a result of the dissolution of AmerGen effective January 8, 2009, Exelon became the sponsor of the AmerGen benefit plans and assumed these minimum funding obligations. 155 Generations commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a)(b) $ 136 $ 136 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (c) 15 4 11 Surety bonds (d) 5 2 3 Performance guarantees (e) 296 200 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (f) 207 162 40 5 Nuclear insurance premiums (g) 1,997 1,997 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (h) 142 118 24 Other 1 1 Total commitments $ 2,799 $ 623 $ 75 $ 95 $ 2,006 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. Guarantees of $8 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) The amount includes letters of credit that are posted to ComEd related to the Illinois procurement auction. (c) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $566 million is reflected in long term debt in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts. (f) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act. (h) See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations rate relief commitments. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, had a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas were indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England had guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), approximately $13 million was included as a liability within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of Exelon and Generation as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. In April 2008, Distrigas, Exelon New England and Mystic entered into agreements that terminated the guarantee, which resulted in Generations elimination of the guarantee liability and the recognition of $13 million of income. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. During 2008, the value of the trust funds declined significantly due to unrealized losses as a result of adverse financial market conditions. Despite this decline in value, Generation believes that the decommissioning trust funds for the nuclear generating stations formerly owned by ComEd, PECO and AmerGen, the expected earnings thereon and, in the case of the former PECO stations, the amounts collected from PECOs customers will ultimately be sufficient to fully fund Generations decommissioning obligations for its nuclear generating stations in accordance with NRC regulations. However, NRC minimum funding requirements may require Generation to take steps to address the 156 funded status of the trust funds. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels. Depending on the value of the trust funds, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or make additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Exelons and Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. Generations next report to the NRC is due on March 31, 2009, based on trust fund values and estimated decommissioning obligations as of December 31, 2008. Based on these values, six units at three nuclear generating stations were in an underfunded position by approximately $185 million in total at December 31, 2008, relative to the NRC minimum funding requirements. Exelon and Generation currently are evaluating the remedy that will be used to address the underfunded status. For a further discussion of matters regarding the adequacy of Generations nuclear decommissioning trust funds to meet its decommissioning obligations, the obligations imposed on Generation related to the potential excess or shortfall of trust funds, the impact on Generations accounting for its former ComEd units as a result of a shortfall of trust funds and other matters related to Generations trust funds and decommissioning obligations, see Note12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 4,756 $ 17 $ 560 $ 702 $ 3,477 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 206 206 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 3,461 272 530 426 2,233 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 321 13 26 26 256 FIN 48 liability and interest (b) 477 3 474 Operating leases 119 20 35 31 33 Other purchase commitments (c) 95 71 21 3 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 24 6 12 6 Total contractual obligations $ 9,459 $ 402 $ 1,184 $ 1,194 $ 6,205 $ 474 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2008, ComEds FIN 48 liability and FIN 48 net interest payable were $387 million and $90 million, respectively. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of FIN 48 liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. Other purchase commitments do not include ComEds supplier forward contracts as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds supplier forward contracts. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreement with Chicago, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. 157 ComEds commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 166 $ 166 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 3 3 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (c) 14 8 4 2 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (d) 14 4 8 2 Surety bonds (e) 2 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (f) 10 10 Construction commitments (g) 188 71 73 44 Other 2 2 Total commitments $ 399 $ 266 $ 85 $ 48 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $191 million is reflected in long term debt in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the 2007 City of Chicago Settlement. (d) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. Under FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others (FIN 45), $1 million is included as a liability on ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 related to this guarantee. (e) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (f) See Notes 3 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds rate relief commitments. (g) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds construction commitments. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment due within Due 2014and beyond AllOther 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Long term debt $ 1,975 $ $ 250 $ 675 $ 1,050 $ Long term debt to financing trusts 1,308 319 805 184 Interest payments on long term debt (a) 1,332 107 212 162 851 Interest payments on long term debt to financing trusts (a) 355 81 46 24 204 FIN 48 liability (b) 1 1 Operating leases 169 22 42 41 64 Fuel purchase agreements (c) 505 157 159 78 111 Other purchase commitments (d) 124 34 39 35 16 Total contractual obligations $ 5,769 $ 720 $ 1,553 $ 1,015 $ 2,480 $ 1 158 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2008 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. (b) As of December 31, 2008, PECOs FIN 48 liability was $1 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain FIN 48 liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECOs commitments as of December 31, 2008, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 122 $ 122 $ $ $ Surety bonds (b) 3 3 Construction commitments (c) 153 52 62 39 Total commitments $ 278 $ 177 $ 62 $ 39 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) PECO maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (c) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on PECOs construction commitments. For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FIN 48 liabilities, see Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel obligations, see Notes 12 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Variable Interest Entities Generation PPAs. Generation enters into power purchase agreements (PPAs) with the objective of obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers, including ComEd and PECO, and these PPAs are not consolidated in Exelons and Generations financial statements pursuant to the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46 R). See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. The financing trusts of ComEd, namely ComEd Financing II, ComEd Financing III, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, and the financing trusts of PECO, namely PECO Trust III, PECO Trust IV and PETT, are not consolidated 159 in Exelons, ComEds and PECOs financial statements pursuant to the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities and FIN 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46 R). Amounts of approximately $200 million and $1.3 billion, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to financing trusts and PETT within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008. During 2008, ComEd Financing II, ComEd Funding LLC and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were liquidated upon final payment of the outstanding debt of each entity. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it sold an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as a sale under SFAS, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities a Replacement of FASB Statement no. 125, (SFAS No. 140). PECO retains the servicing responsibility for the sold receivables and has recorded a servicing liability in accordance with FASB Statement No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140. The agreement terminates on September 18, 2009 unless extended in accordance with its terms. As of December 31, 2008, PECO is in compliance with the requirements of the agreement. See Note 16 Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities for additional information regarding the servicing liability. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. In November 2008, the SEC issued a roadmap for the potential use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the U.S. IFRS is a set of accounting standards developed by the International Accounting Standards Board, whose mission is to develop a single set of global financial reporting standards for general purpose financial statements. The roadmap indicates that the SEC will reconvene in 2011 to evaluate progress towards certain identified milestones and decide whether a mandatory IFRS conversion should be required for all U.S. issuers beginning with large accelerated filers in 2014. Exelon is currently evaluating the potential impact IFRS may have on its financial statements. 160 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Exelon Corporation The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates, and equity prices. Exelons Risk Management Committee (RMC) approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval, and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electric capacity, energy and fossil fuels including oil, gas, coal and emission allowances. Within Exelon, Generation has the most exposure to commodity price risk. PECO has transferred all of its electricity commodity price risk to Generation through a purchase power agreement (PPA) that expires at the end of 2010. PECO relies on the PAPUCs purchased gas cost clause to mitigate natural gas price risk associated with market variability, which allows PECO to adjust rates quarterly to reflect realized natural gas prices. ComEd has transferred most of its near term commodity price risk to generating companies through the former Illinois auction process and the significant portion of its longer term commodity price risk to Generation through the five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. The Illinois Settlement Legislation provides for the pass through of procurement costs by ComEd to its customers. Exelon In 2005, Exelon entered into certain derivatives in the normal course of trading operations to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. Including the related mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities did not have any net impact on Exelons net income for the year ended December 31, 2008, and increased (reduced) Exelons net income by $87 million and $(24) million during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net income or net losses from interests in synthetic fuel producing facilities are reflected in Exelons Consolidated Statements of Operations within income taxes, operating and maintenance expense, depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates and other, net. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding synthetic fuel activity. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Economic hedges may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Economic hedges that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in results of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), and gains and losses are recognized in results of operations when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the 161 fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current results of operations. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation has hedges in place for 2009 and 2010 and, with the ComEd financial swap contract, also for 2011 into 2013. The economic hedge activity resulted in a net mark to market energy contract asset position of $1,151 million at December 31, 2008, comprised of a net energy contract asset for cash flow hedges of $1,197 million and a net energy contract liability for other derivatives of $46 million. The net mark to market asset position for the portfolio at December 31, 2008 is a result of forward market prices decreasing relative to the contracted price of the derivative instruments, the majority of which are hedges of future power sales. Activity associated with the cash flow hedges are recognized through accumulated OCI until the period in which the associated physical sale of power occurs. At that time, the cash flow hedges mark to market position is reversed and reclassified as results of operations, which when combined with the impacts of the actual physical power sale, results in the ultimate recognition of net revenues at the contracted price. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation has estimated greater than 95% and 90% for economic and cash flow hedge ratios for 2009 and 2010, respectively, which includes cash flow and other derivatives, for its energy marketing portfolio. This financial hedge ratio is Generations estimate of the gross margin that is hedged given the current assessment of market volatility. ComEds and PECOs retail load assumptions are based on forecasted average demand. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The hedge ratio is not fixed and will vary from time to time depending upon market conditions, demand, energy market option volatility and actual loads. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations unhedged positions in its non trading portfolio associated with a 10% reduction in the annual average around the clock market price of electricity would be a decrease in pre tax net income of less than $75 million and $150 million, respectively, for 2009 and 2010. This sensitivity assumes that price changes occur evenly throughout the year and across all markets. The sensitivity also assumes a static portfolio. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes, as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of 162 Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. The proprietary trading activities included volumes of 8,891 GWhs, 20,323 GWhs and 31,692 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2008 resulted in pre tax gains of $106 million due to net mark to market gains of $63 million and realized gains of $43 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period, one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $300,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 of $7,182 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and VaR limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons Risk Management Committee monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. ComEd ComEds energy contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Economic hedges may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption to SFAS No. 133. Energy contracts that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in results of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case changes in fair value are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in results of operations when the underlying transaction occurs or if regulatory accounting criteria are met. With the exception of ComEds energy derivative swap with Generation, changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria under SFAS No. 133 or are not designated as such are recognized in current results of operations. Since the swap contract was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates, the change in the fair value each period is recorded by ComEd as a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction and the RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. All of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception to SFAS No. 133. In addition, Generation and PECO have entered into a long term full requirements power purchase agreement (PPA) under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The PPA is not considered a derivative under SFAS No. 133. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations and ComEds trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). 163 The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations and ComEds mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Generation ComEd IntercompanyEliminations (e) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2007 (a) $ 252 $ (11 ) $ $ 241 Total change in fair value during 2007 of contracts recorded in result of operations (29 ) (29 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (106 ) 4 (102 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (15 ) 3 (12 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c) (1,310 ) 4 456 (850 ) Changes in fair value energy derivative with Generation (d) 456 (456 ) Changes in collateral 519 519 Other balance sheet reclassifications (1 ) (1 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2007 (a) $ (690 ) 456 $ (234 ) Total change in fair value during 2008 of contracts recorded in result of operations 646 646 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (131 ) (131 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (b) 544 (24 ) 520 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c) 1,784 (888 ) 896 Changes in fair value energy derivative with Generation (d) (912 ) 912 Changes in collateral (1,024 ) (1,024 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications (11 ) (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2008 (a) $ 1,118 $ (456 ) $ $ 662 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. (b) For Generation, includes $24 million gain of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 related to the settlement of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd. (c) For Generation, includes $888 million gain and $456 million loss of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (d) For ComEd, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd recorded a $456 million regulatory asset related to its mark to market derivative liability. As of December 31, 2007 ComEd recorded a $456 million regulatory liability related to its mark to market derivative asset. In addition, ComEd included a net reduction of purchased power expense of $2 million related to changes in fair value of the five year swap contract with Generation for the year ended December 31, 2008. No effect to purchased power expense was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2007. (e) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. 164 The following tables detail the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2008 and 2007: December 31, 2008 Generation (a)(b) ComEd (a) IntercompanyElimination (c) Exelon Current assets $ 521 $ $ (111 ) $ 410 Noncurrent assets 835 (345 ) 490 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,356 (456 ) 900 Current liabilities (214 ) (111 ) 111 (214 ) Noncurrent liabilities (24 ) (345 ) 345 (24 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (238 ) (456 ) 456 (238 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 1,118 $ (456 ) $ $ 662 (a) Includes current and noncurrent asset for Generation and current and noncurrent liability for ComEd of $111 million and $345 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. (b) As of December 31, 2008, collateral of $177 million, $252 million, $274 million and $50 million are netted against current and noncurrent assets and current and noncurrent liabilities, respectively. The total cash collateral received was $753 million at December 31, 2008. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. December 31, 2007 Generation (a)(b) ComEd (a) IntercompanyElimination (c) Exelon Current assets $ 247 $ 13 $ (13 ) $ 247 Noncurrent assets 51 443 (443 ) 51 Total mark to market energy contract assets 298 456 (456 ) 298 Current liabilities (247 ) 13 (234 ) Noncurrent liabilities (741 ) 443 (298 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (988 ) 456 (532 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ (690 ) $ 456 $ $ (234 ) (a) Includes current and noncurrent liability for Generation and current and noncurrent asset for ComEd of $13 million and $443 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. (b) As of December 31, 2007, collateral of $104 million, $23 million, $63 million and $82 million are netted against current and noncurrent assets and current and noncurrent liabilities, respectively. The total cash collateral posted net of cash collateral received was $272 million at December 31, 2007. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the assets, which are primarily option contracts, represents contracts for which external valuations are not available. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2008 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation and ComEd hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price 165 quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from the swap between Generation and ComEd, energy marketing, trading activities and such variations could be material. The following tables, which present maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market asset or (liability). Second, the tables provide the maturity, by year, of the Registrants net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. Exelon Maturities Within Total FairValue 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 419 $ 208 $ 98 $ 3 $ 3 $ $ 731 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 1 4 5 10 Total $ 420 $ 208 $ 102 $ 8 $ 3 $ $ 741 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ 12 $ $ $ $ $ $ 12 Prices provided by external sources (324 ) 51 86 (187 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 87 (6 ) 6 4 3 2 96 Total $ (225 ) $ 45 92 4 $ 3 $ 2 $ (79 ) (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Excludes $456 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 419 $ 208 $ 98 $ 3 $ 3 $ $ 731 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 112 165 118 59 12 466 Total $ 531 $ 373 $ 216 $ 62 $ 15 $ $ 1,197 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ 12 $ $ $ $ $ $ 12 Prices provided by external sources (324 ) 51 86 (187 ) Prices based on model or other valuation methods 87 (6 ) 6 4 3 2 96 Total $ (225 ) $ 45 92 4 $ 3 $ 2 $ (79 ) 166 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Includes $456 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. ComEd Maturities Within Total Fair Value 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ (111 ) $ (165 ) $ (114 ) $ (54 ) $ (12 ) $ (456 ) (a) Represents ComEds net liabilities associated with the five year financial swap with Generation. The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133 included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of SFAS No. 133 hedges Generation has in place; however, since under SFAS No. 133 not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a roll forward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity Net of Income Tax Generation (a) ComEd Exelon Energy RelatedHedges Energy RelatedHedges Energy RelatedHedges Accumulated OCI derivative gain (loss) at January 1, 2007 $ 247 $ (4 ) $ 243 Effective portion of changes in fair value (786 )(b) 1 (507 ) Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income (9 ) 3 (6 ) Accumulated OCI derivative loss at December 31, 2007 $ (548 )(a) $ $ (270 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value 1,075 (b) 541 Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income 328 (c) 314 Accumulated OCI derivative gain at December 31, 2008 $ 855 (a) $ $ 585 (a) Includes $275 million gain and $275 million loss, net of taxes, related to the fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for 2008 and 2007, respectively. (b) Includes $535 million gain and $275 million loss, net of taxes, of the effective portion of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (c) Includes $15 million gain, net of taxes, of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income related to the settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the year ended December 31, 2008. 167 Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation Generations PPA with ComEd expired at the end of 2006. In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren electricity supply auctions. Beginning in 2007 and as a result of the auctions, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Generation participated in the 2008 ComEd RFP procurement process and will continue to have credit risk in connection with contracts for sale of electricity resulting from the alternative competitive procurement process. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment; therefore, Generations credit risk profile has changed based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. For additional information on the Illinois auction and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation enters into enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with its counterparties, which reduces Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. Typically, each enabling agreement is for a specific commodity and so, with respect to each individual counterparty, netting is limited to transactions involving that specific commodity product, except where master netting agreements exist with a counterparty that allows for cross product netting. In addition to payment netting language in the enabling agreement, the credit department establishes margining thresholds and collateral requirements for each counterparty, which are defined in each contract. Counterparty credit limits are based on an internal credit review that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. To the extent that a counterpartys margining thresholds are exceeded, the counterparty is required to post collateral with Generation as specified in each enabling agreement. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. See the Collateral section below for additional information. The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2008. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs), Independent System Operators (ISOs) and New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) and Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include receivables of $159 million and $126 million, respectively, related to the supplier forward agreement with ComEd and the PPA with PECO. Rating as of December 31, 2008 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure OfCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,553 $ 440 $ 1,113 1 $ 205 Non investment grade 5 2 3 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 6 6 Internally rated non investment grade 29 8 21 Total $ 1,593 $ 450 $ 1,143 1 $ 205 168 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2008 Less than2 Years 2 5 Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,116 $ 437 $ $ 1,553 Non investment grade 5 5 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 6 6 Internally rated non investment grade 21 8 29 Total $ 1,148 $ 445 $ $ 1,593 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As of December 31, 2008 Financial institutions $ 383 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 709 Coal 14 Other 37 Total $ 1,143 ComEd Due to the expiration of ComEds PPA with Generation on December 31, 2006, ComEd began procuring power from multiple suppliers, including Generation. The power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on the price of energy in the spot market compared to the contracted price with each supplier. If the price of energy in the spot market exceeds the contract price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2008, ComEd did not have any credit exposure to suppliers, as the price of energy in the spot market did not exceed the contract prices with suppliers. PECO PECO has a PPA with Generation under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources at fixed prices that are currently below current market prices. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues earned from customers as specified by PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. As noted under Item 1A. Risk Factors, PECO could be negatively impacted if Generation could not perform under the PPA. For PECOs natural gas supply contracts, no disclosure is necessary for the year ended December 31, 2008 because PECO has no price exposure as the fixed contract obligation costs are greater than projected market prices. Collateral. As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financially settled contracts for the purchase and sale of capacity, energy, fuels and emissions allowances. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral 169 requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Exelon depends on access to bank credit lines which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. Since the banking industry issues started to surface in mid 2007, credit markets have tightened. Exelon will be required to renew most of its credit facilities in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cost and availability to renew may be substantially different than when Exelon originally negotiated the existing liquidity facilities. Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the supplier forward contracts that Generation entered into with ComEd and Ameren, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation only. That is, if market prices fall below ComEds or Amerens contracted price levels, neither ComEd nor Ameren is required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above contracted price levels with ComEd or Ameren, Generation may be required to post collateral once certain credit limits are exceeded. Under the terms of the 5 year financial swap contract with ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, the swap contract also provides that: (1) if ComEd is upgraded to investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or Standard & Poors and then is later downgraded below investment grade, or (2) if Generation is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys Investor Service or Standard & Poors, collateral postings would be required by the applicable party depending on how market prices compare to the contracted price levels. As of December 31, 2008, there was no cash collateral or letters of credit posted between any suppliers, including Generation, and ComEd associated with the supplier forward contracts. As of March 19, 2008, ComEd was upgraded to investment grade by Standard & Poors, and therefore, the above condition has been satisfied such that if ComEd is later downgraded, it could be subject to margining depending on market prices at that time. Under no circumstances would collateral postings exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation under the swap contract. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Generation participated in the 2008 ComEd RFP procurement process. Under the terms of the RFP, collateral postings are required of both ComEd and the counterparty supplier, including Generation, should exposures between market prices and contracted prices exceed established thresholds outlined in the agreement. As stipulated in the Illinois legislation as well as the ICC approved procurement tariff, ComEd is permitted to recover its costs of procuring power and energy plus any prudent costs that a utility incurs in arranging and providing for the supply of electric power and energy. Thus all costs associated with collateral postings are recoverable from retail customers through ComEds procurement tariff. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. As of December 31, 2008, Generation was holding $758 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties, of which $753 million was offset against mark to market assets and liabilities, in accordance with FSP FIN 39 1. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. PECO does not obtain collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply agreements. 170 RTOs and ISOs. Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions. Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse acts as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. Generation and PECO Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates, and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 60% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2009 through 2013 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. PECO procures natural gas from suppliers under both short term and long term contracts. PECOs natural gas procurement plan is reviewed and approved annually on a prospective basis by the PAPUC. PECOs counterparty credit risk under its natural gas supply agreements is mitigated by its ability to recover its natural gas costs through the PAPUC purchased gas cost clause that allows PECO to adjust rates to reflect realized natural gas prices. ComEd and PECO Credit risk for ComEd and PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories. ComEd and PECO record a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will continue to monitor the impact of the power prices on its customer payment practices as it relates to its provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd and PECO will continue to monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. The Illinois Settlement Legislation (discussed in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to 171 nonpayment between December 1 of any year and March 1 of the following year. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. ComEd and PECO will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts could be affected by changes in future prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. ComEd and PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of their revenues as of December 31, 2008. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2008, included a $577 million net investment in direct financing leases. The investment in direct financing leases represents future minimum lease payments due at the end of the thirty year lives of the leases of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $915 million. The future minimum lease payments are supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to reduce interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2008, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. As of December 31, 2008, a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in $1.4 million, $1.2 million and less than $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds, respectively, pre tax earnings. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2008, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the values of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations nuclear decommissioning trust fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $247 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. Exelon and Generation maintain trust assets associated with defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits. See Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits in the Critical Accounting Estimates section for information regarding the pension and other postretirement benefit trust assets. 172 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 173 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 174 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2008, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $952 million. In the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a new letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement for certain tax exempt pollution control revenue bonds, which are secured by First Mortgage Bonds. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2008, 2007 or 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 175 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 176 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2008, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 177 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 178 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 173 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 174 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2008, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $952 million. In the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a new letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement for certain tax exempt pollution control revenue bonds, which are secured by First Mortgage Bonds. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2008, 2007 or 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 175 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 176 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2008, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 177 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 178 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2008, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $952 million. In the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a new letter of credit facility to provide credit enhancement for certain tax exempt pollution control revenue bonds, which are secured by First Mortgage Bonds. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. To manage cash flows, ComEd did not pay a dividend in 2008, 2007 or 2006. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 175 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 176 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2008, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 177 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 178 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in a single business segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 and Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to 2006 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2008, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 177 Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 178 
 
