ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Notes 2, 7 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Generations NDT funds and its decommissioning obligations. Dresden Unit 1, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Zion (Zion Station), a two unit nuclear generation station, have ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All SNF for Peach Bottom Unit 1, which ceased operation in 1974, has been removed from the site and the SNF pool is drained and decontaminated. SNF at Zion Station is currently stored in on site storage pools. Generations estimated liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Zion Station was $780 million at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, NDT funds set aside to pay for these obligations were $1,188 million. Zion Station Decommissioning. On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement with EnergySolutions Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) for decommissioning of Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and which ceased operation in 1998. If the various closing conditions under the Asset Sale Agreement are satisfied and the transaction is completed, Generation will transfer to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) 7 Table of Contents associated with Zion Station, including assets held in NDTs (approximately $888 million as of December 31, 2009). In consideration for Generations transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions will assume decommissioning and other liabilities associated with Zion Station. For accounting purposes, based on agreements signed to date, the decommissioning funds are expected to continue to be recorded on Generations balance sheet and the transferred decommissioning obligation is expected to be replaced with a payable to ZionSolutions on Generations balance sheet. ZionSolutions will take possession and control of the land associated with Zion Station pursuant to a Lease Agreement with Generation, to be executed at the closing. Under the Lease Agreement, ZionSolutions will commit to complete the required decommissioning work according to an established schedule and will construct a dry cask storage facility on the land for the SNF currently held in SNF pools at Zion Station. Rent payable under the Lease Agreement will be $1.00 per year, although the Lease Agreement requires ZionSolutions to pay property taxes associated with Zion Station and penalty rents may accrue if there are unexcused delays in the progress of decommissioning work at Zion Station or the construction of the dry cask SNF storage facility. To reduce any potential risk of default by EnergySolutions or ZionSolutions, EnergySolutions is required to provide a $200 million letter of credit to be used to fund decommissioning costs in case of a shortfall of decommissioning funds following specified failures of performance. EnergySolutions has also provided a performance guarantee and will enter into other agreements that will provide rights and remedies for Generation in the case of other specified events of default, including a special purpose easement for disposal capacity at the EnergySolutions site in Clive, Utah, for all LLRW volume of Zion Station. However, if the resources of EnergySolutions Inc. and its subsidiaries are inadequate to complete required decommissioning work, Generation may be required to complete the work at its own expense. ZionSolutions and Generation will also enter into a Put Option Agreement pursuant to which ZionSolutions will have the option to transfer the remaining Zion Station assets and any associated liabilities back to Generation upon completion of all required decommissioning and other work at Zion Station. The purchase price payable under the Put Option Agreement is $1.00 plus the assumption of associated liabilities. Completion of the transactions contemplated by the Asset Sale Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of a number of closing conditions, including the receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS, and the approval of the license transfer from the NRC. On July 14, 2008, the IRS issued a private letter ruling indicating that the proposed transfer of the decommissioning funds would be treated as non taxable to both Generation and EnergySolutions, and the NRC approved the license transfer request on May 4, 2009. Prior to completion of the transaction, EnergySolutions must submit a budget that demonstrates that the required work can be completed on schedule for the amount of funds held in decommissioning trusts. On October 14, 2008, EnergySolutions announced that it intended to defer the transfer of the Zion Station assets until after the financial markets stabilize and EnergySolutions reaffirms that there is sufficient value in the Zion decommissioning trust funds to ensure the success of the Zion early decommissioning project. During 2009, NDT fund balances associated with Zion Station improved to $888 million as of December 31, 2009 compared to $749 million as of December 31, 2008. Pursuant to their agreement, EnergySolutions and Generation have until December 31, 2011, to close the transaction, although the parties have rights to withdraw from the transaction before that date. Generation believes that accelerated decommissioning will make the land available for other uses earlier than originally thought possible, and can be completed cost effectively for the amounts that were collected from ratepayers and deposited into the NDT funds for Zion Station. Fossil, Hydroelectric and Renewable Facilities Generation operates various fossil and hydroelectric facilities and maintains ownership interests in several other facilities including LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2009 and 2008, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil and hydroelectric 8 Table of Contents generating facilities was 6% and 6%, respectively, of Generations total electric supply. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generations power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generations electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by FERC. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires on August 31, 2014 and for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Facility Project expires on September 1, 2014. In March 2009, Generation filed a Pre Application Document and Notice of Intent to renew the licenses, pursuant to FERC relicensing requirements. For those plants located within the control areas administered by PJM or the New England control area administered by ISO New England Inc. (ISO NE), notice is required to be provided to PJM or ISO NE, as applicable, before a plant can be retired. Plant Retirements. On December 2, 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal fired generating units and one oil/gas fired generating unit, effective May 31, 2011. The units to be retired are Cromby Generating Station Unit 1 and Unit 2 and Eddystone Generating Station Unit 1 and Unit 2. On January 5, 2010, PJM notified Exelon that based upon its preliminary analysis, the retirement of one or more of the Cromby and Eddystone units may result in reliability impacts to the transmission system. On February 1, 2010, Generation notified PJM that to the extent the retirement of these units results in reliability impacts, Generation would continue operations beyond its desired deactivation date during the period of construction of the necessary transmission upgrades, provided that Exelon receives the required environmental permits and adequate cost based compensation. For more information regarding the proposed plant retirements, see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. City Solar. On April 22, 2009, Exelon announced that it is developing a 10 MW solar power plant in Chicago, Illinois. The new plant supports Exelons strategy to reduce carbon emissions associated with fossil fueled electricity generation. As of December 31, 2009, the project is approximately 82% complete and has commenced commercial operations. The project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2010. The estimated project cost is $64 million. As of December 31, 2009, total costs incurred were approximately $51 million. Insurance. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generations financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties Generation. 9 Table of Contents Long Term Contracts In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the following long term contracts in effect as of December 31, 2009: Seller Location Expiration Capacity (MW) Kincaid Generation, LLC Kincaid, Illinois 2013 1,108 Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP (a) Franklin, Georgia 2030 942 Tenaska Frontier, Ltd Shiro, Texas 2020 830 Green Country Energy, LLC (b) Jenks, Oklahoma 2022 795 Elwood Energy, LLC Elwood, Illinois 2012 775 Lincoln Generating Facility, LLC Manhattan, Illinois 2011 664 Wolf Hollow Granbury, Texas 2023 350 Old Trail Windfarm, LLC McLean, Illinois 2026 198 Others (c) Various 2011 to 2028 491 Total 6,153 (a) Commencing June 1, 2010 and lasting for 20 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 942 MW of capacity, energy, and ancillary services supplied from its existing long term contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP through a PPA with Georgia Power, a subsidiary of Southern Company. (b) Commencing June 1, 2012 and lasting for 10 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 520 MW, or approximately two thirds, of capacity, energy, and ancillary services supplied from its existing long term contract with Green Country Energy, LLC through a PPA with Public Service Company of Oklahoma, a subsidiary of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (c) Includes long term capacity contracts with seven counterparties. Illinois Settlement Agreement In July 2007, following extensive discussions with legislative leaders in Illinois, Generation, ComEd and other utilities and generators in Illinois reached an agreement (Illinois Settlement) with various parties concluding discussions of measures to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois without rate freeze, generation tax or other legislation that Exelon believes would be harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. Legislation reflecting the Illinois Settlement (Illinois Settlement Legislation) was signed into law in August 2007. Generation and ComEd committed to contributing $811 million to rate relief programs over the four year period and partial funding for the IPA. Generation committed to contribute an aggregate of $747 million, consisting of $435 million to pay ComEd for rate relief programs for ComEd customers, $307.5 million for rate relief programs for customers of other Illinois utilities and $4.5 million for partially funding operations of the IPA. Through December 31, 2009, Generation has recognized net costs from its contributions of $727 million in the Statement of Operations of its total commitment of $747 million. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Illinois Settlement Legislation. Fuel The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2009 and estimated for 2010: Source of Electric Supply (a) 2009 2010 (Est.) Nuclear units 139,670 139,725 Purchases non trading portfolio 23,206 21,025 Fossil and hydroelectric units 10,189 11,674 Total supply 173,065 172,424 (a) Represents Generations proportionate share of the output of its generating plants. 10 Table of Contents The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for fossil fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale obligations, including to ComEd and PECO, and some of Generations retail business requirements. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2013. Generations contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2015. All of Generations enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2012. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2013. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units. Coal is procured primarily through annual supply contracts, with the remainder supplied through either short term contracts or spot market purchases. Natural gas is procured through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either oil or natural gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over the counter and exchange traded instruments. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments. Power Team Generations wholesale marketing and retail electric supplier operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity and through long term, intermediate term and short term contracts. Generation seeks to maintain a net positive supply of energy and capacity, through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements, to protect it from the potential operational failure of one of its owned or contracted power generating units. Generation has also contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership. Generation enters into PPAs as part of its overall strategic growth plan, with objectives such as obtaining low cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to customers and assisting customers to meet renewable portfolio standards. Power Team may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd and PECO. These purchases may be for more than the energy demanded by Power Teams customers. Power Team then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation has also purchased transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs in markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer than normal weather conditions. 11 Table of Contents Power Team also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. Generation implements a three year ratable sales plan to align its hedging strategy with its financial objectives. Generation also enters into transactions that are outside of this ratable sales plan, such as the ComEd swap which runs into 2013. However, except for the ComEd swap arrangement described below, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk beyond 2010 for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years. As of December 31, 2009, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 91% 94%, 69% 72%, and 37% 40% for 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts, including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be implemented through the use of fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits including volume, stop loss and value at risk limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the corporate risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Power Team also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Power Teams efforts. At December 31, 2009, Generations short and long term commitments relating to the purchase and sale of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows: (in millions) Net CapacityPurchases (a) Power Only Purchases (b) Power OnlySales Transmission RightsPurchases (c) 2010 $ 305 $ 91 $ 1,307 $ 10 2011 291 49 1,046 9 2012 274 22 568 9 2013 151 238 6 2014 145 120 Thereafter 1,105 761 Total $ 2,271 $ 162 $ 4,040 $ 34 (a) Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2009. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are conditional on plant availability. (b) Excludes renewable energy PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. (c) Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts. On January 1, 2007, Generation began supplying a portion of ComEds load through staggered SFCs resulting from an ICC approved reverse auction in 2006. Approximately 35% of the contracted supply from the 2006 auction was awarded to Generation. Under the terms of the auction, one third of the contracted load expired in May 2008, another one third expired in May 2009 and the remaining load will expire in May 2010. For the period from June 2008 to May 2009, Generation was awarded standard block energy purchase contracts with ComEd through an ICC approved RFP. ComEd purchased the remainder of its energy load for this period on the spot market and through the existing SFCs. In addition, in order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement to mitigate the price risk inherent in this plan, ComEd locked in a portion of the energy price through a five year financial swap contract with Generation. 12 Table of Contents The Illinois Settlement Legislation established a new competitive process, effective June 2009, for energy procurement to be managed by the IPA, with oversight by the ICC. The IPAs plan for ComEds procurement of energy from June 2009 through May 2010 was approved by the ICC in January 2009. Under the IPAs plan, Generation will continue to supply a portion of ComEds energy load. See Notes 2 and 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. Generation has a PPA with PECO under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources. Subsequent to 2010, PECO will procure all of its electricity from market sources, including Generation. See PECO Retail Electric Services, Pennsylvania Transition Related and Regulatory Matters for additional information regarding PECOs competitive, full requirements energy supply procurement process after 2010. Capital Expenditures Generations business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generations estimated capital expenditures for 2010 are as follows: (in millions) Production plant $ 1,126 Nuclear fuel (a) 848 Total $ 1,974 (a) Includes Generations share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co owned Salem plant ComEd ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEds business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEds business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to mandatory reliability standards set by the NERC, for which Exelon has formed a company wide NERC Reliability Standards Compliance Program. ComEds retail service territory has an area of approximately 11,300 square miles and an estimated population of 8 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 3 million. ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers. ComEds franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEds franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2010 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration. 13 Table of Contents ComEds kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEds highest peak load occurred on August 1, 2006 and was 23,613 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on January 15, 2009 and was 16,328 MW. Retail Electric Services Under Illinois law, transmission and distribution service is regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase generation from a competitive electric generation supplier. As of December 31, 2009, several competitive electric generation suppliers have been granted approval by the ICC to serve retail electricity customers in Illinois. There are currently a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternate suppliers. At December 31, 2009, approximately 53,400 retail customers (primarily commercial and industrial customers), representing approximately 52% of ComEds annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEds obligation to provide fixed price full service electric service including generation supply service, which is referred to as POLR obligations, varies by customer size. ComEds obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kW continues for all customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to the utility after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed price full service obligation to many of its largest customers with demands of 400 kW or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. ComEd has full service obligations for customers with demands of 100 400 kW through May 2010. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices. Delivery Service Rate Cases. In August 2005, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC to comprehensively revise its tariffs and to adjust rates for delivering electricity effective January 2007. During 2006, the ICC issued various orders associated with this case, which resulted in a total annual rate increase of $83 million effective January 2007. ComEd and various other parties appealed the rate order to the courts. In September 2009, the Illinois Appellate Court affirmed the ICCs order and denied the appeals. Several parties have asked the Appellate Court to rehear some of the rate design issues addressed in the opinion. There is no set time in which the court must act. In October 2007, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC for approval to increase its delivery service revenue requirement by approximately $360 million. The ICC issued an order in the rate case approving a $274 million increase in the annual revenue requirement, which became effective in September 2008. ComEd and several other parties have filed appeals of the rate order with the courts. ComEd cannot predict the timing of resolution or the results of the appeals. In the event the order is ultimately changed, the changes are expected to be prospective. Procurement Related Proceedings. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Beginning on January 1, 2007, ComEd procured 100% of energy to meet its load service requirements through ICC approved staggered SFCs with various suppliers, including Generation. Under the terms of the auction, one third of the contracted load expired in May 2008, another one third expired in May 2009 and the remaining load will expire in May 2010. For the period from June 2008 to May 2009, the ICC approved an interim plan under which ComEd procured a portion of its energy load through an RFP for standard wholesale products. ComEd 14 Table of Contents purchased the remainder of its energy load for this period on the spot market and through the existing SFCs. ComEd hedged the price of a significant portion of energy purchased on the spot market with a five year variable to fixed financial swap contract with Generation. Beginning in June 2009, under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply. On January 7, 2009, the ICC approved the IPAs plan for the procurement of ComEds expected energy requirements from June 2009 through May 2010 and a portion of ComEds expected energy requirements from June 2010 through May 2011. On December 28, 2009, the ICC approved the IPAs procurement plan covering the period June 2010 through May 2015. See Notes 2 and 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds procurement related proceedings and the financial swap contract. Other. Illinois law provides that in the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEds case) 30,000 or more customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a result of the interruption and may be responsible for reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. During the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, ComEd does not believe that it had any interruptions that have triggered this damage liability or reimbursement requirement. Construction Budget ComEds business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJMs RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEds most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2010 is $935 million. PECO PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECOs operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECOs business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other aspects of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to mandatory reliability standards by the NERC, for which Exelon has a company wide NERC Reliability Standards Compliance Program. PECOs combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 3.7 million. PECO provides electric delivery service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.7 million, 15 Table of Contents including 1.4 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO supplies natural gas service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.3 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 485,000 customers. PECO has the necessary authorizations to furnish regulated electric and natural gas service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECOs authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and or grandfathered rights, which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECOs natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility but PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat. PECOs kWh sales and load of electricity are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECOs highest peak load occurred on August 3, 2006 and was 8,932 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MW. PECOs gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECOs highest daily gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 mmcf. Retail Electric Services Pennsylvania permits competition by competitive electric generation suppliers for the supply of retail electricity while transmission and distribution service remains regulated. At December 31, 2009, less than 1% of PECOs residential and large commercial and industrial loads and 6% of its small commercial and industrial load were purchasing generation service from competitive electric generation suppliers. Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, in accordance with the Competition Act, PECOs electric generation rates are capped through a transition period ending December 31, 2010. During the transition period, PECO has been authorized to recover $5.3 billion of costs that might not otherwise be recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) with a 10.75% return on the unamortized balance through the imposition and collection of non bypassable CTCs on customer bills. The 1998 restructuring settlement also authorized PECO to securitize up to $5 billion of its stranded cost recovery. At December 31, 2009, the unamortized balance of PECOs stranded costs, or CTC regulatory asset, was approximately $883 million, which will be fully amortized in 2010. For 2010, PECO estimates collections of CTC revenue of $1,032 million. In 2010, to the extent the actual recoveries of CTCs differ from the authorized amount, a quarterly or monthly reconciliation adjustment to the CTC rates will be made to increase or decrease future remaining collections accordingly. The billing of CTCs will cease on December 31, 2010. PECO has a PPA with Generation under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues PECO is authorized to recover from customers as specified by PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. Pennsylvania Transition Related Legislative and Regulatory Matters. In Pennsylvania, despite the recent decline in wholesale electricity market prices, there has been some continuing interest from elected officials in mitigating the potential impact of electric generation price increases on customers 16 Table of Contents when rate caps expire. While PECOs retail electric generation rate cap transition period does not end until December 31, 2010, transition periods have ended for seven other Pennsylvania electric distribution companies, and, in most instances, post transition electric generation price increases occurred. In recent years, elected officials in Pennsylvania have suggested legislation to address concerns over post transition electric generation price increases. Measures suggested by legislators include rate increase deferrals and phase ins, rate cap extensions, a generation tax and contributions of value by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs. During 2009, PECO received PAPUC approval of its Market Rate Transition Phase In Program and the settlement of its DSP Program. The DSP Program, which has a 29 month term beginning January 1, 2011 and ending May 31, 2013, complies with electric supply procurement guidelines set forth in Act 129 and will provide default electric service following the expiration of electric generation rate caps on December 31, 2010. In accordance with the DSP Program, PECO conducted two competitive procurements for electric supply for default electric service customers commencing January 2011. PECO has procured approximately 50% of the total estimated electric supply needed to serve the residential customer class in 2011. The results of these procurements indicate a price increase of 4%, on average, over current prices for residential customers. The actual price change will not be known until all the scheduled procurements have been completed. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Smart Meter and Energy Efficiency Programs Smart Meter Programs. PECO is planning to spend up to approximately $650 million on its smart meter and smart grid infrastructure. On November 25, 2009, PECO filed a joint petition for partial settlement of its $550 million Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan with the PAPUC, which was filed on August 14, 2009 in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. On January 28, 2010, the ALJ issued an initial decision approving the partial settlement and determining remaining cost allocation issues subject to final PAPUC approval. PECO plans to file for PAPUC approval of an initial dynamic pricing and customer acceptance program in June 2010, and for approval of a universal meter deployment plan for its remaining customers in 2012. On October 27, 2009, the DOE announced its intent to award PECO $200 million in the ARRA of 2009 matching grant funds under the Smart Grid Investment Grant Program. Assuming successful completion of the DOE negotiations and PECOs receipt of the full award on reasonable terms, PECO is committed to implementing expanded initial deployment of 600,000 smart meters within three years and then accelerating universal smart meter deployment from 15 years to 10 years. Energy Efficiency Programs. Pursuant to Act 129s energy efficiency and conservation/demand (EE&C) reduction targets, PECO filed its EE&C plan with the PAPUC on July 1, 2009. On October 28, 2009, the PAPUC issued an order providing partial approval of PECOs EE&C plan. The approved plan totals more than $330 million and includes the CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy efficiency appliance rebate and trade in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non profit, educational, governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. On December 24, 2009, PECO filed revisions to the portions of the plan not approved based on PAPUC feedback. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Natural Gas PECOs natural gas sales and distribution revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a portion of total rates, are subject 17 Table of Contents to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates. In October 2008, the PAPUC approved a settlement of a gas distribution rate increase that provides for an annual revenue increase of $77 million. The approved distribution rate adjustment became effective on January 1, 2009. PECOs natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. Approximately 35% of PECOs current total yearly throughput is provided by natural gas suppliers other than PECO and is related primarily to the supply of PECOs large commercial and industrial customers. Natural gas transportation service provided to customers by PECO remains subject to rate regulation. PECO also provides billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates. PECOs natural gas supply is provided by purchases from a number of suppliers for terms of up to two years. These purchases are primarily delivered under long term firm transportation contracts. PECOs aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 46 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECOs liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECOs 2009 2010 heating season planned supplies. Construction Budget PECOs business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJMs RTEP, PECO has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECOs most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2010 is $500 million. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information. ComEd and PECO Transmission Services ComEd and PECO provide unbundled transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERCs open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost based rates. ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERCs Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the communication of non public information between the transmission owners employees and wholesale merchant employees. PJM is the ISO and the FERC approved RTO for the Mid Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day to day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region wide, open access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service. 18 Table of Contents ComEds transmission rates are established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in January 2008. FERCs order establishes the agreed upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis. ComEds most recent annual formula rate update filed in May 2009 reflects actual 2008 expenses and investments plus forecasted 2009 capital additions. The update resulted in a revenue requirement of $436 million resulting in an increase of approximately $6 million from the 2008 revenue requirement, plus an additional $4 million related to the 2008 true up of actual costs. The 2009 revenue requirement of $440 million, which includes the 2008 true up, became effective June 1, 2009 and is recovered over the period extending through May 31, 2010. The regulatory asset associated with the true up is being amortized as the associated revenues are received. ComEd will continue to reflect its best estimate of its anticipated true up in the financial statements. The Competition Act, Pennsylvanias electric utility restructuring legislation, was adopted in 1996 and unbundled electric generation, transmission and distribution services. PECOs most recently approved bundled rate for these services was approved in 1990 and established a weighted average debt and equity return on its electric rate base of 11.23%. As a result of PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement, retail transmission rates were capped at the level in effect on December 31, 1996. The cap expired on December 31, 2006, however those rates will continue to be in effect until PECO files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust retail transmission rates. PECOs transmission rate included in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff is a FERC approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for transmission service. The PAPUC approves how PECO recovers this cost through its retail transmission rates. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services. Employees As of December 31, 2009, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 19,329 employees in the following companies, of which 8,728 or 45% are covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs): IBEW Local 15 (a) IBEW Local 614 (b) Other CBAagreements (c) EmployeesCovered by CBA TotalEmployees Generation 1,690 242 1,787 3,719 9,616 ComEd 3,639 3,639 5,819 PECO 1,254 1,254 2,391 Other (d) 89 27 116 1,503 Total 5,418 1,496 1,814 8,728 19,329 (a) A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on November 20, 2009, covers approximately 130 employees in ComEds System Services Group. (b) 1,254 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally, Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on March 31, 2015 and covers 242 employees. (c) During 2009 and early 2010, CBAs were agreed to with the following Security Officers unions: Braidwood, Byron, Clinton, Dresden, Oyster Creek and TMI. The agreements generally expire during 2012 except for the agreements at Clinton and Oyster Creek, which expire in 2013. Additionally, during 2009, a 5 year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which will expire in 2015. (d) Other includes shared services employees at BSC. 19 Table of Contents Environmental Regulation General Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by various states and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities. The U.S. EPA administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. Various state and local environmental protection agencies or boards have jurisdiction over certain activities in states in which Exelon and its subsidiaries do business. State and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The Exelon board of directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address environmental matters, including the CEO who also serves as Exelons Chief Environmental Officer; the Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Exelon 2020; and the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd and PECO. Performance for those individuals directly involved in environmental strategy activities is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The Exelon board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to oversee Exelons strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelons climate change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelons comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation, and to its energy delivery oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd, PECO and Exelon Transmission Company. Water Under the Federal Clean Water Act (Clean Water Act), NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. All of Generations power generation facilities discharging industrial wastewater into waterways are subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being granted an administrative extension. In July 2004, the U.S. EPA issued the final Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. The Clean Water Act requires that the cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts. The Phase II rule established national performance standards for reducing the impact on aquatic organisms at existing power plants and provided each facility with a number of compliance options and permitted site specific variances based on a cost benefit analysis. The requirements were intended to be implemented through state level NPDES permit programs. All of Generations power generation facilities with cooling water systems are subject to this regulation. Facilities without closed cycle recirculating systems (e.g., cooling towers) are potentially most affected. Those facilities are Clinton, Cromby, Dresden, Eddystone, Fairless Hills, Handley, Mountain Creek, Oyster Creek, Peach Bottom, Quad Cities, Salem and Schuylkill. Following legal challenges to the Phase II Rule, the Rule has been withdrawn and remanded to the U.S. EPA for revisions consistent with the courts decisions. In the interim, Generation has been complying with the requirements of the state permitting agencies, which are administering the Rule pursuant to their best professional judgment until a new final Rule is issued by the U.S. EPA. On January 7, 2010, the NJDEP issued a draft NPDES permit for Oyster Creek that would require the installation of cooling towers within seven years after the effective date of the permit. Oyster Creek will continue to operate under its current permit, issued in 1994, until the draft permit is 20 Table of Contents finalized after a period of public comment. Generation believes the public comment period and regulatory process could take up to two years before a final permit is issued. Should the permit be issued in its current form, Generation estimates it would be required to have cooling towers in operation by 2019. Generation estimates that the cost to retrofit Oyster Creek with closed cycle cooling towers would be approximately $700 million to $800 million. This cost estimate includes construction materials and labor, lost capacity and energy revenue during construction, and other ongoing operations and maintenance costs. Generation believes that these additional costs would call into question the economic viability of operating Oyster Creek until the expiration of its current operating license in 2029, and Generation would close Oyster Creek if either the final Section 316(b) regulations or NJDEP requirements have performance standards that require the installation of cooling towers. Closure of Oyster Creek could result in reliability issues associated with the transmission system. Generation believes the period allowed for compliance will be sufficient to address any transmission reliability issues before operations at Oyster Creek are shut down. For example, should PJM require the plant to operate under a reliability must run order, Generation would be allowed full recovery of its costs to operate until the transmission issues are resolved. In 2005 and 2006, the Illinois EPA issued NOVs to Generation alleging violations of state groundwater standards at the Braidwood, Dresden and Byron generating stations. Exelon and Generation are in litigation with the Illinois EPA regarding these NOVs and cannot determine the outcome of these matters but believe their ultimate resolution should not, after consideration of reserves established, have a material impact on Exelons or Generations respective results of operations, cash flows or financial position. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of NOVs received by Generation related to violations of Illinois state groundwater standards. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission. Solid and Hazardous Waste The CERCLA, as amended, provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the U.S. EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. 21 Table of Contents MGP Sites MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities, for which they may be liable for environmental remediation. ComEd and PECO perform a detailed study of the MGP reserve on an annual basis and believe that appropriate reserves have been recorded. Since ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to the joint settlement of the 2008 gas distribution rate case, are recovering environmental costs of remediation of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates, future estimated recoveries are recorded as a regulatory asset. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Costs of Environmental Remediation At December 31, 2009, Exelon had accrued $175 million, consisting of $17 million, $113 million, and $45 million at Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation alternatives. Exelon has recorded a regulatory asset of $143 million, consisting of $103 million and $40 million at ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to the recovery of MGP remediation costs. See Notes 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The amount to be expended in 2010 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation is expected to total $23 million, consisting of $1 million, $19 million and $3 million at Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable. Cotter Corporation The U.S. EPA has advised Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary, that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. On May 29, 2008, the U.S. EPA issued a Record of Decision approving the remediation option submitted by Cotter and the two other PRPs. Generation, which assumed ComEds potential liability, has accrued what it believes to be an adequate amount within the estimated cost range to cover its anticipated share of the liability. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Air Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelons subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution, including a two phase program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2 and NOx from power plants. Flue gas desulfurization systems (SO2 scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generations coal fired units. In addition to Federal and state regulatory activities, several legislative proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including generating plants, have been proposed in the United States Congress. For example, several multi pollutant bills have been 22 Table of Contents introduced in past years that would reduce generating plant emissions of NOx, SO2, mercury and carbon. At this time, Generation can provide no assurance that new legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, will not have a significant effect on Generations operations, cash flows, or financial position. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding national clean air legislation in the forms of the CAIR and CAMR, in addition to Keystones compliance with the Acid Rain Program Phase II limits and NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for violations of the Clean Air Act. Global Climate Change Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a significant contributor to the human caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear and hydroelectric), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low carbon intensity assets, Generations emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide (CO2) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions from the direct combustion of fossil fuels, primarily at its generating plants; CO2, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO2 representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from Generations combustion of fossil fuels represent approximately 90% of Exelons total GHG emissions; this is also a highly variable component of its GHG emissions to forecast due to the primarily intermediate and peaking profile of Exelons fossil generating fleet. However, only approximately 6% of Exelons total electric supply is provided by its fossil fuel generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the gas pipeline system and the coal piles at its generating plants, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) leakage in its electric operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity in its facilities. Despite its small carbon footprint, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory and legislative, and operational risks associated climate change. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding international, Federal, regional and state climate change legislation and regulation and its potential impact on Exelon. Exelons Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other virtually non GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelons low carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow as policymakers take action to address global climate change. Despite Exelons low GHG emission inventory and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon announced on May 6, 2005 that it had established a voluntary goal to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. Exelon made this pledge under the U.S. EPAs Climate Leaders program, a voluntary industry government partnership addressing climate change. The U.S. EPA confirmed on April 6, 2009 that Exelon achieved its 2008 voluntary GHG reduction goal through its planned GHG management efforts, including the retirement of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and its current energy efficiency initiatives. Based on its verified GHG emissions inventory, Exelons 2008 carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2 e) emissions were 9.7 million metric tons. 23 Table of Contents Compared to its 2001 baseline of 15.7 million metric tons of CO2 e emissions, Exelon achieved a reduction of nearly 6.0 million metric tons (a 38% reduction below baseline) at the end of 2008. The cost of achieving the voluntary GHG emissions reduction goal did not have a material effect on Exelons results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelons GHG emissions and those of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets. Exelon 2020 sets a goal for Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). Through Exelon 2020, Exelon is pursuing three broad strategies: reducing or offsetting its own carbon footprint, helping customers and communities reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low carbon electricity in the marketplace. Initiatives to reduce Exelons own carbon footprint include reducing building energy consumption by 25%, reducing vehicle fleet emissions, improving the efficiency of the generation and delivery system for electricity and natural gas, and developing an industry leading green supply chain. Plans to help customers reduce their GHG emissions include ComEds new portfolio of energy efficiency programs, a similar portfolio of energy efficiency programs at PECO to meet the requirements of the recently enacted Act 129, the implementation of smart meters and real time pricing programs and a broad array of communication initiatives to increase customer awareness of approaches to manage their energy consumption. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding ComEd and PECO smart grid filings and stimulus grant applications. Finally, Exelon will offer more low carbon electricity in the marketplace by increasing its investment in renewable power and adding capacity to existing nuclear plants through uprates. Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans and has an organized implementation effort underway. This implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market conditions. Exelon has recently completed a periodic review of the original analysis of the costs and abatement potential of various emissions reducing opportunities and remains committed to achieving the goal put forward in 2008. Specific initiatives and the amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. FutureGen Alliance Exelon supports efforts to develop new technologies to help reduce GHG emissions but recognizes that many opportunities to invest in new and emerging technologies are not yet commercially viable without Federal and state financial support. On January 30, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation intends to become a member of the FutureGen Alliance (FutureGen), which has been established to help fund a clean coal technology demonstration plan in Mattoon, Illinois. The proposed arrangement between Generation and FutureGen is subject to a number of conditions, including the execution of definitive agreements for participation by Generation and other contributing members. The proposed arrangement contemplates that Generation would make phased contributions of up to $32.1 million over a period of up to six years, commencing with the execution of a Cooperative Agreement between FutureGen and the DOE to provide partial funding for the project. Contributing members would have rights to withdraw from participation before a decision is made to start actual construction of the project or if there are insufficient funds to complete the project. Construction of the project is dependent on funding from contributing members, a grant of more than $1 billion from DOE, and financing from other sources. Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards Thirty three states have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may determine to adopt such legislation in the future. 24 Table of Contents The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include cost effective renewable energy resources in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources subject to legislated rate impact criteria. ComEd procured approximately $19 million in RECs under the ICC approved RFP for the period June 2008 through May 2009. On May 13, 2009, the ICC approved the results of an RFP to procure RECs for a total cost of $31 million for the period June 2009 through May 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The AEPS Act mandates that 1.5% to 8.0% and 4.2% to 10.0% of electric energy sold by an electric distribution company or electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers shall be generated from Tier I and Tier II alternative energy resources, respectively, as measured in AECs. During 2009, PECO entered into agreements with accepted bidders, including Generation, for the purchase of 412,000 AECs annually for five years beginning no later than December 31, 2009. This agreement along with the five year agreement entered into during 2008 for the purchase of 40,000 AECs annually were executed in accordance with its PAPUC approved plan to acquire and bank approximately 450,000 non solar Tier I AECs annually for a five year term in order to prepare for 2011, the first year of PECOs required compliance with the AEPS Act following the completion of its electric generation rate cap transition period. In August 2009, the PAPUC approved a joint petition filed by PECO and various interveners for expedited approval of PECOs early procurement and banking of up to 8,000 solar Tier 1 AECs annually for ten years. On January 25, 2010, the PAPUC approved the fixed price agreement solar AEC procurement results. PECO plans to enter into the fixed price agreements by February 8, 2010. While Generation is not directly affected by RPS or AEPS legislation from a compliance perspective, increased deployment of renewable and alternative energy resources will affect regional energy markets and, at the same time, may present some opportunities for sales of Generations renewable power, including from Generations hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations and wind energy PPAs. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 5, 2010 Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 64 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon; Chairman, Generation Crane, Christopher M. 51 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon and Generation Clark, Frank M. 64 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd OBrien, Denis P. 49 Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer and President, PECO Gillis, Ruth Ann 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative and Diversity Officer, Exelon; President, Exelon Business Services Company McLean, Ian P. 60 Executive Vice President, Exelon and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon Transmission Company Moler, Elizabeth A. 61 Executive Vice President, Government Affairs and Public Policy Von Hoene Jr., William A. 56 Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal Zopp, Andrea L. 53 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Cornew, Kenneth W. 44 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team division of Generation Hilzinger, Matthew F. 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer DesParte, Duane M. 46 Vice President and Corporate Controller 25 Table of Contents Generation Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 64 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon; Chairman Crane, Christopher M. 51 President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon and Generation Pardee, Charles G. 50 Senior Vice President; President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear Cornew, Kenneth W. 44 Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team Beneby, Doyle N. 50 Senior Vice President, Exelon Generation, Acting President Exelon Power Hilzinger, Matthew F. 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon (Principal Financial Officer) Galvanoni, Matthew R. 37 Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon; Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) ComEd Name Age Position Clark, Frank M. 64 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pramaggiore, Anne R. 51 President and Chief Operating Officer Hooker, John T. 61 Executive Vice President, Legislative and External Affairs Donnelly, Terence R. 49 Executive Vice President, Operations Bradford, Darryl M. 54 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel Butler Jr., Calvin G. 40 Senior Vice President, ComEd Corporate Affairs Marquez, Fidel 48 Senior Vice President, Customer Operations Trpik Jr., Joseph R. 40 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Waden, Kevin J. 38 Vice President and Controller PECO Name Age Position OBrien, Denis P. 49 Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer and President Adams, Craig L. 57 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Barnett, Phillip S. 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Bonney, Paul R. 51 Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel Diaz Jr., Romulo L. 63 Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs Acevedo, Jorge A. 38 Vice President and Controller Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective Registrants board of directors or governing body, as applicable, until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Rowe was Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Exelon from 2004 to 2008 and has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Exelon since 2002. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Crane was Executive Vice President, Exelon and Chief Operating Officer, Generation from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2004 to 2007. 26 Table of Contents Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Clark was Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff of Exelon and President of ComEd from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Clark is listed as an executive officer of Exelon by reason of his position as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. OBrien was President of PECO from 2003 to 2007. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Gillis was Executive Vice President, Exelon and President, Exelon Business Services Company from 2008 through 2009. Previously, she was Senior Vice President, Exelon and President, Exelon Business Services Company from 2005 to 2008; and Senior Vice President, Exelon, and Executive Vice President, ComEd from 2004 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets from 2008 to 2009; and Executive Vice President, Exelon and President of the Exelon Power Team division of Generation from 2002 to 2008. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Moler was Executive Vice President, Governmental and Environmental Affairs and Public Policy from 2002 through 2009. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Von Hoene was Executive Vice President and General Counsel from 2008 to 2009; Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon from 2006 to 2008; Senior Vice President and Acting General Counsel, Exelon from 2005 to 2006; and Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Exelon from 2004 to 2005. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Zopp was Executive Vice President, Exelon and Chief Human Resources Officer from 2008 through 2009; Senior Vice President, Exelon and Chief Human Resources Officer from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon from 2006 to 2007; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Sears Holding Corporation from 2003 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Cornew held the following positions in the Power Team division of Generation: Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination from 2007 to 2008 and Senior Vice President, Power Transactions and Wholesale Marketing from 2004 to 2007. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Senior Vice President, Exelon and Corporate Controller from 2005 to 2008; and Vice President, Exelon and Corporate Controller from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Hilzinger was Principal Accounting Officer for ComEd and PECO through December 31, 2006. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. DesParte was Vice President, Finance of BSC from 2007 to 2008 and Vice President, Exelon Energy Delivery from 2004 to 2006. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Pardee was Senior Vice President, Generation and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2005 to 2007; and Senior Vice President Engineering and Technical Services from 2004 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Beneby was Vice President, Power Operations from 2008 to 2009; Vice President, Construction and Maintenance, PECO from 2006 to 2008; Vice President, Electric Operations, PECO from 2005 to 2006; and Vice President, Engineering and System Performance, Exelon Energy Delivery from 2004 to 2005. 27 Table of Contents Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Galvanoni was Vice President and Controller, ComEd and PECO from 2006 through 2009; Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon during 2006; and Director of Accounting and Reporting, Generation from 2004 to 2005. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Pramaggiore was Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs from 2007 to 2009; Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President, Regulatory and Strategic Services from 2002 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hooker was Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs and Real Estate and Facilities from 2008 to 2009; Senior Vice President, ComEd, Legislative and External Affairs from 2005 to 2008; and Senior Vice President, Exelon Energy Delivery Real Estate and Property Management from 2003 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Donnelly was Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd from 2007 through 2009; Senior Vice President, Technical Services, ComEd and PECO in 2007; and Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd and PECO from 2004 through 2007. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Bradford was the Senior Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd from 2007 through June 2009; Vice President, General Counsel, ComEd from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President, Associate General Counsel, ComEd from 2003 to 2007. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Butler was Senior Vice President, Large Customer Services, State Legislative and Government Affairs, ComEd from May 2009 to January 2010; Vice President, State Legislative and Government Affairs, ComEd from 2008 to 2009; Senior Vice President, External Affairs, RR Donnelley from 2005 to 2008; and Vice President of Operations, Pontiac Division, RR Donnelley from 2004 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Marquez was Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services from 2007 to May 2009, and Vice President of External Affairs, ComEd, from 2004 to 2007. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Trpik was Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon, from 2004 through 2009. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Waden was Director of Accounting Operations, ComEd from 2007 through 2009; and Director of Financial Reporting and Accounting Research, Exelon Energy Delivery, LLC from 2003 through 2006. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Adams was Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, BSC from 2004 to 2007. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Barnett was Senior Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon, from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President Finance, Exelon Generation from 2003 to 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Bonney was Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Regulatory from 2001 to 2006. Prior to his election to this listed position, Mr. Diaz was Associate General Counsel, Exelon from 2008 through 2009; City Solicitor, City of Philadelphia from 2005 through 2008; and Chair of the Commercial and Regulatory Law Group, City of Philadelphia from 2002 through 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Acevedo was Assistant Controller of Generation from 2007 through July 2009; and Director of Accounting, Power Team, from 2003 through 2007. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Each of the Registrants operates in a market and regulatory environment that poses significant risks, many of which are beyond each Registrants control. Management of each Registrant regularly meets with the Chief Risk Officer and the RMC, which is comprised of officers of the Registrants, to identify and evaluate the most significant risks of the Registrants businesses, and the appropriate steps to manage and mitigate those risks. The Chief Risk Officer and senior executives of the Registrants discuss those risks with the Risk Oversight and Audit Committees of the Exelon Board of Directors and the ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. In addition, the Exelon Board of Directors Generation Oversight and Energy Delivery Oversight Committees, respectively, evaluate risks related to the generation and energy delivery businesses. The risk factors discussed below may adversely affect one or more of the Registrants results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the material risks known to it to affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may in the future adversely affect its performance or financial condition. The Registrants most significant risks arise as a consequence of: (1) Generations position as a predominantly nuclear generator selling power into competitive wholesale markets, and (2) the role of both ComEd and PECO as operators of electric transmission and distribution systems in two of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States. The Registrants major risks fall primarily under the categories of market and financial risk, regulatory and legislative risk, and operational risk. First, Exelon and Generation have exposure to certain market and financial risks, including the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as the price of fuels, and in particular the price of natural gas and coal, that drive the wholesale market prices that Generations nuclear power plants can command, the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generations output is sold, and the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs. Second, the Registrants face regulatory and legislative risks, including changes to the laws and regulations that govern competitive markets and utility cost recovery, and that drive environmental policy. In particular, Exelons and Generations financial performance may be adversely affected by changes that could affect Generations ability to sell the power it produces and sell into the competitive wholesale power markets at market based prices. In addition, potential legislation regarding climate change and renewable portfolio standards could increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities, which could put downward pressure in some markets on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation could hope to derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. Third, the Registrants face a number of operational risks, including those risks inherent in running the nations largest fleet of nuclear power reactors and large electric distribution systems. The safe and effective operation of the nuclear facilities and the ability to effectively manage its associated decommissioning obligations as well as the ability to maintain the availability, reliability and safety of its energy delivery systems are fundamental to Exelons ability to protect and grow shareholder value. Finally, the operating costs of ComEd and PECO and the opinions of customers and regulators of ComEd and PECO are affected by those companies ability to maintain the availability, reliability and safety of their energy delivery systems. A discussion of each of these risks and other risk factors is included below. 29 Table of Contents Market and Financial Risks Generation is exposed to price fluctuations in the wholesale power market, which may negatively impact its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Generation fulfills its energy supply commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity under long term and short term contracts in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generations cash flows may vary accordingly. Generations cash flows from generation that is not used to meet Generations long term supply commitments are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generations ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity will be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels. Consequently, the open market wholesale price of electricity likely reflects the cost of fossil fuels plus the cost to convert to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of fossil fuels generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. In the event that alternative generation resources, such as wind and solar, are mandated through RPS or otherwise subsidized or encouraged through climate legislation and added to the supply, they could displace a higher cost fossil plant, which could reduce the price at which market participants sell their electricity. This could then reduce the market price at which all generators in that region, including Generation, would sell their output. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Economic conditions, weather, and increases in energy efficiency and demand response can impact demand and prevent higher cost generating resources from being called upon, effectively lowering the market price received for electricity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has led to reduced demand for electricity and lower prices for electricity and other commodities, which will adversely affect the Registrants financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. This could adversely affect the Registrants ability to pay dividends or fund other discretionary uses of cash such as growth projects. The weak world economy reduced the international demand for coal, oil and natural gas, and led to sharply lower fossil fuel prices putting downward pressure on electricity prices. The use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits is expected to increase natural gas supply and reserves, which will tend to place further downward pressure on natural gas prices and could reduce Generations revenues. A slow recovery of the economy could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices, which could adversely affect Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. In addition to price fluctuations, Generation is exposed to other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from Generation will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all 30 Table of Contents Market and Financial Risks Continued participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, the retail businesses subject Generation to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities that serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customers account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Unstable Markets. The wholesale spot markets are evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets could adversely affect Generations business. In addition, a significant decrease in market participation could affect market liquidity and have a detrimental effect on market stability. Market performance and other economic factors may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets or increase the related obligations, which then could require significant additional funding. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy may adversely affect the value of the investments held within Exelons employee benefit plan trusts and Generations NDTs. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold substantial assets in these trusts. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments may increase the funding requirements to decommission Generations nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements associated with Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, Exelons pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Also, if future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets or other factors are not recoverable from ComEd and PECO customers, the results of operations and financial positions of ComEd and PECO could be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and obligations, their results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets may adversely affect the Registrants businesses in several ways, including the availability and cost of short term funds for liquidity requirements, the Registrants ability to meet long term commitments, Generations ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect the Registrants financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their financial commitments and short term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants respective operations. Further disruptions in the capital and credit markets, or further deterioration of the banks financial condition could adversely affect the Registrants ability to draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that 31 Table of Contents Market and Financial Risks Continued are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Registrants and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, changes to Generations hedging strategy to reduce collateral posting requirements, or a reduction in dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. The strength and depth of competition in competitive energy markets depends heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that may affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace those market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long term contracts such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd as described further in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations and cash flows. If the Registrants were to experience a downgrade in their credit ratings below investment grade or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, they would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under their agreements with counterparties and could experience higher borrowing costs. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generations trading business is subject to credit quality standards that may require market participants to post collateral for their obligations. If Generation were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating) or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. The amount of collateral required to be provided by Generation at any point in time is dependent on a variety of factors, including (1) the notional amount of trading positions, (2) the nature of counterparty and related agreements, and (3) changes in power or other commodity prices. In addition, if Generation were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Generation could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the power generation industry or Generation has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of Generation. ComEds financial swap contract with Generation and its operating agreement with PJM contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating and market prices. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and ComEd were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required under the financial swap contract with Generation to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. Collateral posting by ComEd under the financial swap will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Conversely, collateral requirements under the PJM operating agreement will generally increase as market prices rise and decrease as market prices fall. Given the relationship to market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if ComEd were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. 32 Table of Contents Market and Financial Risks Continued PECOs operating agreement with PJM and its natural gas procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and PECO were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. PECOs collateral requirements relating to its natural gas supply contracts are a function of market prices. Collateral posting requirements for PECO with respect to these contracts will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if PECO were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Either or both ComEd and PECO could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry in general or ComEd or PECO in particular has deteriorated. ComEd or PECO could experience a downgrade if the current supportive regulatory environment in Illinois or Pennsylvania becomes less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the state or adopting other measures to manage higher electricity prices. Additionally, the ratings for ComEd or PECO could be downgraded if either companys financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to a failure to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of ComEd or PECO. ComEd and PECO conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements and procedures intended to assure that ComEd and PECO are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate ComEd and PECO from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as ringfencing) may help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ringfencing measures, the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. A reduction in the credit rating of ComEd or PECO could have a material adverse effect on ComEd or PECO, respectively. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Recent Market Conditions and Security Ratings for further information regarding the potential impacts of credit downgrades on the Registrants cash flows. Results of operations may be negatively affected by increasing costs. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. These medical benefit costs are increasing at a rate that is significantly greater than the rate of general inflation. Additionally, it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is higher than anticipated by the Registrants. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs, pension costs, or other increasing costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. 33 Table of Contents Market and Financial Risks Continued Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. (Exelon and Generation) Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. Coal, natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short term and spot market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. It is not possible to accurately predict the future cost or availability of these commodities. Generations risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. (Exelon and Generation) Generations asset based power position as well as its power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generations power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generations future results of operations. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. (Exelon and Generation) Generations financial growth may depend in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. If demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and certain states statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Additionally, construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. 34 Table of Contents Market and Financial Risks Continued Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. (Exelon and Generation) A significant portion of Generations power portfolio is used to provide power under a long term PPA with PECO and procurement contracts with ComEd and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generations output is sold in the wholesale market. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generations financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost effectively meet the load requirements of its customers, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Challenges to tax positions taken by the Registrants as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could negatively impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelons 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like kind exchange transaction. If the IRS is successful in its challenge, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that would become currently payable. As of December 31, 2009, Exelons and ComEds potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $1.1 billion excluding penalties. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, it could also negatively affect Exelons and ComEds results of operations by up to $300 million (after tax) related to interest expense. In addition to attempting to impose tax on the above transactions, the IRS has asserted penalties for a substantial understatement of tax, which could result in an after tax charge of $196 million to Exelons and ComEds results of operations should the IRS prevail in asserting the penalties. The timing effects of the final resolution of this matter are unknown. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected, and tax credits. See Notes 1 and 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Increases in customer rates and the impact of economic downturns may lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increasing rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEds current procurement plan includes purchasing power through contracted suppliers and the spot market. Purchased power prices fluctuate based on the supply and demand for electricity, which could lead to higher customer bills and potentially additional uncollectible accounts expense. The cost of PECOs purchased power, which is provided by Generation through a PPA, is capped as part of the transition period through 2010. For service following the end of PECOs transition period, PECO will purchase power on the open market, with no return or profit to PECO, which may significantly increase the cost of power PECO procures and in turn increase costs to the customer. The increase in rates could cause customer usage to decrease, resulting in lower transmission and distribution revenues and lower profit margins for PECO. 35 Table of Contents Market and Financial Risks Continued Gas rates charged to PECO customers are comprised primarily of purchased natural gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to PECO, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to PECO. Purchased natural gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customers bill and may be adjusted quarterly, are designed for PECO to recover the cost of the natural gas commodity and pipeline transportation and storage services that PECO procures to service its customers. Gas rates may change quarterly based on market conditions, which may lead to higher prices and potentially additional uncollectible accounts expense. PECOs cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when natural gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. If purchased natural gas cost charges increase substantially reflecting higher natural gas procurement costs incurred by PECO, customer usage may decrease, resulting in lower distribution charges and lower profit margins for PECO. In addition to increased purchased power for ComEd and PECO customers and purchased natural gas costs for PECO customers, economic downturns and the related limitations on service termination may result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances, which would negatively impact ComEds and PECOs results from operations and cash flows. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 of any year and before April 1 of the following year, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility cannot terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. As a result, PECO may be delayed in stopping service to customers who are delinquent in their bills, which increases PECOs uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities from terminating electric service to an Illinois residential space heating customer due to nonpayment, extending from December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also affected by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. As a result, ComEd may be delayed in stopping service to customers who are delinquent in their bills, which could increase ComEds uncollectible accounts expense. The effects of weather may impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEds and PECOs transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each companys ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Generations operations are also affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generations ability to source or send power to where it is sold. In addition, drought like conditions can impact Generations ability to run certain generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. 36 Table of Contents Market and Financial Risks Continued Certain long lived assets recorded on the Registrants statements of financial position may become impaired, which would result in write offs of the impaired amounts. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants evaluate the carrying value of long lived assets to be held and used for impairment whenever indications of impairment exist. The carrying value of a long lived asset is considered impaired when the carry value is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying value of a long lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. In the event that a long lived asset is impaired, a loss would be recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value. Fair value is determined primarily by available market valuations or, if applicable, future discounted estimated cash flows or other valuation methods. Factors such as the business climate, including current energy and market conditions, and the condition of assets are considered when evaluating long lived assets for impairment. An impairment would require Generation to reduce the long lived asset through a charge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations. Exelon and ComEd both had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2009 in connection with the merger between PECO and Unicom Corporation, the former parent company of ComEd. Under GAAP, goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEds capital structure, results of ComEds rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. Such a potential impairment would be a noncash charge, which could have a material impact on Exelons and ComEds operating results. See ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 6 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on goodwill impairments. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. The Registrants results of operations could be adversely affected if they were unable to effectively manage their capital projects or raise the necessary capital. See Item 1 of this Form 10 K for further information regarding the Registrants potential future capital expenditures. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non performance. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon and its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non performance by the third parties, the Registrants could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of the Registrants. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 37 Table of Contents Due to its dependence on its two most significant customers, ComEd and PECO, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non performance or change in the creditworthiness of either of its most significant customers. (Exelon and Generation) Generation currently provides power under procurement contracts with ComEd for a significant portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements and a PPA with PECO to meet 100% of PECOs electricity supply requirements through 2010. In addition, Generation entered into a financial swap contract with ComEd, effective August 2007, to hedge a portion of ComEds electricity supply requirements through May 2013. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEds and PECOs continued payments under these procurement contracts and the PPA and would be adversely affected by negative events affecting these agreements, including the non performance or a significant change in the creditworthiness of either ComEd or PECO. A default by ComEd or PECO under these agreements would have an adverse effect on Generations results of operations and financial position. Generations business may be negatively affected by competitive electric generation suppliers. (Exelon and Generation) Because retail customers in both Illinois and Pennsylvania can switch from ComEd or PECO to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generations obligation to provide the supply needed to serve Generations share of the ComEd load and to supply PECO with all of the energy PECO needs to fulfill its default service obligation is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is the ability of retail customers to switch to competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from ComEd or PECO than Generation anticipates, the ComEd and or PECO load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generations costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generations revenues. If more of such customers switch than Generation anticipates, the ComEd and or PECO load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, cause Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Regulatory and Legislative Risks The Registrants generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated and could be subject to adverse legislative actions. Fundamental changes in regulation or legislation could disrupt the Registrants business plans and adversely affect their operations and financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Substantially all aspects of the businesses of the Registrants are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation. Further, Exelons and Generations operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of Generation to sell power at market based rates, as opposed to cost based or other similarly regulated rates, and Exelons, ComEds and PECOs operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent on their ability to recover their costs for purchased power and their costs of distribution of power to their customers. In their business planning and in the management of their operations, the Registrants must address the effects of regulation of their businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking jurisdictions and taxing authorities. Fundamental changes in regulations or other adverse legislative actions impacting the Registrants businesses would require changes in their business planning models and operations and could adversely affect their operating results, cash flows and the value of their assets. Legislative and regulatory developments related to climate change and RPS may also significantly affect Exelons and Generations operating results, cash flows and the value of their assets. Various 38 Table of Contents Regulatory and Legislative Risks Continued proposals for climate legislation and GHG regulation, if enacted into law, could result in increased costs to entities that generate electricity through carbon emitting fossil fuels, which could increase the market price at which all generators in that region, including Generation, may sell their output, thereby increasing the revenue Generation could realize from its low carbon nuclear assets. However, legislation regarding climate change and RPS could also increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities in the Midwest, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generations Midwest nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation could hope to derive from Generations nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. The Registrants cannot predict when or whether any of these various legislative and regulatory proposals may become law or what their effect will be on the Registrants. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal legislative or regulatory actions that could affect the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets. (Exelon and Generation) Federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets exceed the marginal cost of operating nuclear plants, claims that this difference is evidence that the competitive model is not working, and resulting calls for some form of re regulation, the elimination of marginal pricing, the imposition of a generation tax, or some other means of reducing the earnings of Generation and its competitors. As the energy markets continue to mature, a low number of wholesale market power participants entering procurement proceedings may also influence how certain regulators and legislators view the effectiveness of these competitive markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which has escalated in recent years as retail rate freezes expired and prices of electricity increased with rising fuel prices, is expected to continue in 2010. A number of advocacy groups have urged FERC to reconsider its support of competitive wholesale electricity markets and require the RTOs to revise the rules governing the RTO administered markets. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long term contractual obligations, and to purchase power to meet obligations not provided by its own resources. These wholesale markets allow Generation to take advantage of market price opportunities but also expose Generation to market risk. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features, which may create trading barriers between the markets. Approximately 80% of Generations generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generations future results of operations will depend on (1) FERCs continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the development of competitive wholesale power markets, such as the PJM market, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market, such as, for example, withdrawal of significant participants from the regional wholesale markets. Generation could also be adversely affected by efforts of state legislatures and regulatory authorities to respond to the concerns of consumers or others about the costs of energy that are reflected through wholesale markets. In particular, the advocacy groups oppose the RTOs use of a single clearing price for electricity sold in the RTO markets utilizing locational marginal pricing. FERC conducted conferences which led to a rulemaking on Wholesale Competition in Regions with Organized Electric Markets. On October 17, 39 Table of Contents Regulatory and Legislative Risks Continued 2008, FERC issued a Final Rule, Order No. 719, to improve the operation of organized wholesale electric markets in the areas of (1) demand response and market pricing during periods of operating reserve shortage; (2) long term power contracting; (3) market monitoring policies; and (4) the responsiveness of RTOs and ISOs. A number of entities have filed requests for rehearing with FERC. The outcome of this FERC rulemaking process could significantly affect Generations results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, on June 21, 2007, FERC issued a Final Rule on Market Based Rates for Wholesale Sales of Electric Energy, Capacity and Ancillary Services by Public Utilities. FERC provided clarification to the Final Rule on December 14, 2007. The Final Rule made a number of changes in FERCs market based rate analysis and required several market power update filings by Generation, ComEd and PECO, the first of which was made on January 14, 2008. As discussed in more detail in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, during 2009, FERC issued three orders accepting Exelons filings, and therefore affirmed that Exelons affiliates with market based rates can continue to make market based sales. Accordingly, the application of the Final Rule has not had and is not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations, although the longer term impact will depend on how FERC applies the Final Rule as its enforcement of the rule matures with time and experience. Currently, legislation under consideration in Congress and rulemakings under consideration by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission would require over the counter derivative products to be moved to exchanges or be centrally cleared. Power Team currently has substantial unsecured credit with various counterparties available for over the counter derivative transactions that could require Generation, or its counterparties, to post additional collateral if they were moved to an exchange or centrally cleared. These rule changes could reduce overall market liquidity and participation, which is a threat to the competitive market model. In addition, these changes could significantly affect Generations cash flows. Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generations physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generations cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and or PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. (Exelon and Generation) Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generations affiliation with ComEd and PECO and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation based taxes and contributions to rate relief packages. 40 Table of Contents Regulatory and Legislative Risks Continued Legislators or regulators may respond to anticipated increases in rates following the end of the retail electric generation rate cap transition period in Pennsylvania on December 31, 2010 by enacting laws or regulations aimed at restricting or controlling those rates or by establishing rate relief programs that could require significant funding from PECO and or Generation that could adversely affect PECO and or Generations results of operations. (Exelon, Generation and PECO) In Pennsylvania, there has been some continuing interest from legislators and regulators in mitigating the potential impact of electric generation price increases on customers when rate caps expire. Although Act 129 provides guidelines associated with electricity procurement that support competitive, market based procurement, elected officials have suggested rate cap extensions, a generation tax and contributions of value by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs. PECO and Generation cannot predict whether any of these measures will become law or whether elected officials or regulators might take action that could have a material impact on the procurement process. If the price that PECO is allowed to bill to customers for electricity is below PECOs cost to procure and deliver electricity, PECO expects that it will suffer adverse consequences, which could be material. The Illinois Settlement Legislation enacted in 2007 providing rate relief to Illinois electric customers and requiring other changes in the electric industry in lieu of harmful alternatives such as rate freezes, caps, or a tax on generation, could be reversed or modified by new legislation that could be harmful to ComEd and Generation. (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Illinois Settlement Legislation enacted in 2007 reflects the Illinois Settlement reached by ComEd, Generation, and other utilities and generators in Illinois with various parties concluding discussions of measures to address higher electric bills experienced in Illinois since the end of the legislatively mandated transition and rate freeze at the end of 2006. The Illinois Settlement Legislation addressed those concerns without implementing a rate freeze, generation tax, or other alternative measures that Exelon believes would have been harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. For more information regarding potential risks associated with such legislation, see Illinois Settlement Agreement and Retail Electric Services in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. Although the Illinois Settlement Legislation allows the contributors to the rate relief to terminate their funding commitments and recover any undisbursed funds set aside for rate relief in the event that, prior to August 1, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly passes legislation that freezes or reduces electric rates of or imposes a generation tax on parties to the Illinois Settlement, there is no guarantee that such legislation will not be passed and enacted in Illinois. The experience in Illinois in 2007 suggests a risk that the Illinois General Assembly may threaten extreme measures again in the future in an attempt to force electric utilities and generators to make further concessions. Such legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on ComEd and Generations results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties claims for alleged health or property damages. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediation of environmental contamination of 41 Table of Contents Regulatory and Legislative Risks Continued property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. If application of the Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act regulations establishing a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic organisms at existing generating stations requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Oyster Creek, Salem or other Exelon power plants, this could result in material costs of compliance. The amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may also negatively impact Generations decision to operate the plant after the Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act matter is ultimately resolved. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos related disease and exposure. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrants remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Changes in ComEds and PECOs terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including rates for the procurement of electricity or gas and the recovery of costs related to MGP remediation, smart grid infrastructure, and energy efficiency and demand response programs. In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are typically subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators for establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs such as significant capital projects will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to 42 Table of Contents Regulatory and Legislative Risks Continued deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations to provide electricity service to certain groups of customers in its service area who choose to obtain their electricity from the utility. The ultimate outcome of these regulatory actions will have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, lengthy proceedings and time delays in implementing new rates relative to when costs are actually incurred could have a material adverse effect on ComEds and PECOs results of operations and cash flows. Federal or additional state RPS and or energy conservation legislation along with energy conservation by customers could negatively affect the results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Changes to current state legislation or the development of Federal legislation that requires the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, especially if timely cost recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for RECs and purchased power. Federal and state legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs that require the implementation of new technologies, such as smart meters and smart grid, will increase capital expenditures and could significantly impact ComEd and PECO if timely cost recovery is not allowed. Furthermore, regulated energy consumption reduction targets and declines in customer energy consumption resulting from the implementation of new energy conservation technologies could lead to a decline in the revenues of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business Environmental Regulation Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards. ComEd and PECO are likely to be subject to higher transmission operating costs in the future as a result of PJMs RTEP. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJMs RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint for new facilities greater than or equal to 500 kV, and requires costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. On August 6, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit remanded to FERC its decision related to allocation of new facilities 500 kV and above for further proceedings. ComEd and PECO cannot estimate the longer term impact on their respective results of operations and cash flows because of the uncertainties relating to what new facilities will be built, the cost of building those facilities and the allocation ultimately determined by further proceedings. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the authoritative guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation could be material to Exelon, ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) As of December 31, 2009, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd, and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the authoritative guidance could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At 43 Table of Contents Regulatory and Legislative Risks Continued December 31, 2009, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.7 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2009, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $1.5 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against OCI (before taxes) of up to $2.5 billion and $92 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A significant decrease in equity as a result of any changes could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 1, 2, 6 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if Federal and or state legislation is adopted to address climate change. (Exelon and Generation) Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. Select Northeast and Mid Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and or state legislation to reduce GHG emissions is likely to evolve in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon and Generation may incur material costs either to additionally limit the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. The nature and extent of environmental regulation may also impact the ability of Exelon and its subsidiaries to meet the GHG emission reduction targets of Exelon 2020. For example, more stringent permitting requirements may preclude the construction of lower carbon nuclear and gas fired power plants. Similarly, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see Global Climate Change in ITEM 1 of this Form 10 K. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties. The Registrants cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to their business activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of their business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 44 Table of Contents Operational Risks The Registrants employees, contractors, customers and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. Significant risks include nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases. War, acts and threats of terrorism, natural disaster, pandemic and other significant events may adversely affect Exelons results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon does not know the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Exelons operations. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect Exelons operations and its ability to raise capital. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect Exelons results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. The United States is currently in a pandemic situation related to the H1N1 virus, but the impact to Exelon is expected to be negligible if there is no change to the current severity of the pandemic. Exelon has plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate its generating and transmission and distribution assets could be affected, resulting in decreased service levels and increased costs. Additionally, Exelon is affected by changes in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes, storms and other natural disasters in its service territory and throughout the U.S. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive which could result in increased costs including supply chain costs. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by matters arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. (Exelon and Generation) Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generations results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generations operating costs by requiring Generation to produce additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generations obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third party sales. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to produce energy from its nuclear stations. 45 Table of Contents Operational Risks Continued Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 24 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generations results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and or lower energy sales. Each 24 day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generations operations. Certain of Generations nuclear units have previously had a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. It is difficult to predict the cost for unknown potential future issues and any required remediation actions. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRCs waste confidence rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF may adversely affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. Should a national policy for the disposal of SNF not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for SNF could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generations ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generations nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were 46 Table of Contents Operational Risks Continued to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by PSEG, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plants output, Generations results of operations are dependent on the operational performance of the co owner operators and could be adversely affected by a significant event at those plants. Additionally, continued poor operating performance at nuclear plants not owned by Generation could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy, which could significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. In addition, closure of generating plants owned by others, or extended interruptions of their operations, could have effects on transmission systems that could adversely affect the sale and delivery of electricity in markets served by Generation. Nuclear major incident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and abroad. The consequences of a major incident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major incident within the United States, owned by Generation or owned by others, may exceed Generations resources, including insurance coverage. Additionally, an accident or other significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States, owned by others or Generation, may result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear fueled energy and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance. As of January 1, 2010, the required amount of nuclear liability insurance is $375 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $12.6 billion limit for a single incident. Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generations nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. NEIL did not make a distribution in 2009, and Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations four units that have been retired) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. The performance of capital markets also can significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers or from the 47 Table of Contents Operational Risks Continued previous owners of Clinton, TMI Unit No. 1 and Oyster Creek generating stations, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation were unable to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units may be negatively affected. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generations NDTs are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generations nuclear plants, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or make additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generations cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Generations financial performance may be negatively affected by risks arising from its ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities. (Exelon and Generation) Hydroelectric plants are licensed by FERC. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires August 31, 2014, and the license for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Project expires on September 1, 2014. Generation cannot predict whether it will receive all the regulatory approvals for the renewed license of its hydroelectric facilities. If FERC does not renew the operating licenses for Generations hydroelectric facilities or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generations results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. Generation may also lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, conditions may be imposed as part of the license renewal process that may adversely affect operations, may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating costs and significantly affect Generations results of operations or financial position. Similar effects may result from a change in the Federal Power Act or the applicable regulations due to events at hydroelectric facilities owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation. ComEds and PECOs operating costs, and customers and regulators opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEds and PECOs delivery systems can interrupt the transmission and delivery of electricity and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including weather. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight and ComEds and PECOs maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. 48 Table of Contents Operational Risks Continued The physical risks associated with climate change could impact the Registrants results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Physical risks of climate change, such as more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena, could affect some, or all, of the Registrants operations. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Registrants service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. Finally, climate change could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Exelons and Generations continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. ComEds and PECOs respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Demand for electricity within ComEds and PECOs service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants results of operations. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to operating challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. The Registrants are subject to information security risks. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) A security breach of the Registrants information systems could impact the reliability of the generation fleet and or reliability of the transmission and distribution system or subject them to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information. The Registrants cannot accurately assess the probability that a security breach may occur, despite the measures taken by the Registrants to prevent such a breach, and are unable to quantify the potential impact of such an event. Due to PECOs dependence on Generation to fulfill 100% of its electric energy supply requirements under a PPA, PECO could be negatively affected in the event of Generations inability to perform under the PPA. (Exelon and PECO) PECO currently acquires 100% of its electric energy and capacity requirements under a PPA with Generation. In accordance with the PPA, the current electric generation rates that PECO pays have been fixed and will continue to be fixed through 2010. In the event that Generation could not perform under the PPA, PECO would be forced to purchase electric energy from alternative sources at potentially higher rates. While PECO believes that this event is unlikely to occur, such an event could have a negative impact on PECOs results of operations and financial position. 49 Table of Contents The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants may make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. It is possible that FERC or state public utility commission regulations may impose certain other restrictions on such transactions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of managements time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined companys business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Generation The following table sets forth Generations owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2009: Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Nuclear (d) Braidwood Braidwood, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,360 Byron Byron, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,336 Clinton Clinton, IL 1 Uranium Base load 1,065 Dresden Morris, IL 2 Uranium Base load 1,740 LaSalle Seneca, IL 2 Uranium Base load 2,288 Limerick Limerick Twp., PA 2 Uranium Base load 2,293 Oyster Creek Forked River, NJ 1 Uranium Base load 625 Peach Bottom Peach Bottom Twp., PA 2 50 Uranium Base load 1,145 (e) Quad Cities Cordova, IL 2 75 Uranium Base load 1,317 (e) Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 2 42.59 Uranium Base load 1,003 (e) Three Mile Island Londonderry Twp, PA 1 Uranium Base load 837 17,009 Fossil (Steam Turbines) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 2 20.72 Coal Base load 352 (e) Cromby 1 Phoenixville, PA 1 Coal Intermediate 144 (f) Cromby 2 Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil/Gas Intermediate 201 (f) Eddystone 1, 2 Eddystone, PA 2 Coal Intermediate 588 (f) Eddystone 3, 4 Eddystone, PA 2 Oil/Gas Intermediate 760 Fairless Hills Falls Twp, PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 60 Handley 4, 5 Fort Worth, TX 2 Gas Peaking 870 Handley 3 Fort Worth, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 395 Keystone Shelocta, PA 2 20.99 Coal Base load 357 (e) MountainCreek 6, 7 Dallas, TX 2 Gas Peaking 240 Mountain Creek 8 Dallas, TX 1 Gas Intermediate 565 Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 166 Wyman Yarmouth, ME 1 5.89 Oil Intermediate 36 (e) 4,734 50 Table of Contents Station Location No. ofUnits PercentOwned (a) PrimaryFuel Type PrimaryDispatchType (b) NetGenerationCapacity (MW) (c) Fossil (Combustion Turbines) Chester Chester, PA 3 Oil Peaking 39 Croydon Bristol Twp., PA 8 Oil Peaking 391 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 56 Eddystone Eddystone, PA 4 Oil Peaking 60 Falls Falls Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 Framingham Framingham, MA 3 Oil Peaking 29 LaPorte Laporte, TX 4 Gas Peaking 152 Medway West Medway, MA 3 Oil/Gas Peaking 105 Moser Lower Pottsgrove Twp., PA 3 Oil Peaking 51 New Boston South Boston, MA 1 Oil Peaking 12 Pennsbury Falls Twp., PA 2 Landfill Gas Peaking 6 Richmond Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 96 Salem Hancocks Bridge, NJ 1 42.59 Oil Peaking 16 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 2 Oil Peaking 30 Southeast Chicago Chicago, IL 8 Gas Peaking 296 Southwark Philadelphia, PA 4 Oil Peaking 52 1,442 Fossil (Internal Combustion/Diesel) Conemaugh New Florence, PA 4 20.72 Oil Peaking 2 (e) Cromby Phoenixville, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Delaware Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 Keystone Shelocta, PA 4 20.99 Oil Peaking 2 (e) Schuylkill Philadelphia, PA 1 Oil Peaking 3 13 Hydroelectric and Renewable City Solar Chicago, IL n.a. Solar Base load 10 (g) Conowingo Harford Co., MD 11 Hydroelectric Base load 572 Muddy Run Lancaster, PA 8 Hydroelectric Intermediate 1,070 1,652 Total 124 24,850 (a) 100%, unless otherwise indicated. (b) Base load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently, produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently, produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of lower efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels and pumped storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods. (c) For nuclear stations capacity reflects the annual mean rating. All other stations reflect a summer rating. (d) All nuclear stations are boiling water reactors except Braidwood, Byron, Salem and Three Mile Island, which are pressurized water reactors. (e) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. (f) On December 2, 2009, Generation announced its intention to permanently retire four of its fossil fired generating units effective May 31, 2011. Eddystone Generating Station Unit1 and Unit 2 and Cromby Generating Station Unit 1 are coal fired units and Cromby Generating Station Unit 2 operates on either natural gas or fuel oil. (g) Table represents total expected capacity upon project completion. City Solar is 82% complete as of December 31, 2009. The net generation capability available for operation at any time may be less due to regulatory restrictions, transmission congestion, fuel restrictions, efficiency of cooling facilities, level of water supplies and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, repairs or modifications required by regulatory authorities. 51 Table of Contents Generation maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its principal plants and properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information regarding nuclear insurance of generating facilities, see ITEM 1. Business Generation. For its insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on Generations consolidated financial condition or results of operations. ComEd ComEds electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that ComEd owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. ComEd believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements, licenses and franchise rights; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. Transmission and Distribution ComEds higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2009 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 765,000 90 345,000 2,634 138,000 2,890 69,000 149 ComEds electric distribution system includes 34,872 circuit miles of overhead lines and 29,765 cable miles of underground lines. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of ComEd are subject to the lien of ComEds Mortgage dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which ComEds First Mortgage Bonds are issued. ComEd maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, ComEd is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of ComEd. PECO PECOs electric substations and a portion of its transmission rights of way are located on property that PECO owns. A significant portion of its electric transmission and distribution facilities is located above or underneath highways, streets, other public places or property that others own. PECO believes that it has satisfactory rights to use those places or property in the form of permits, grants, easements and licenses; however, it has not necessarily undertaken to examine the underlying title to the land upon which the rights rest. 52 Table of Contents Transmission and Distribution PECOs higher voltage electric transmission lines owned and in service at December 31, 2009 were as follows: Voltage (Volts) Circuit Miles 500,000 188(a) 230,000 541 138,000 156 69,000 200 (a) In addition, PECO has a 22.00% ownership interest in 127 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Pennsylvania and a 42.55% ownership interest in 131 miles of 500,000 voltage lines located in Delaware and New Jersey. PECOs electric distribution system includes 12,971 circuit miles of overhead lines and 15,788 cable miles of underground lines. Gas The following table sets forth PECOs natural gas pipeline miles at December 31, 2009: Pipeline Miles Transportation 31 Distribution 6,703 Service piping 5,707 Total 12,441 PECO has an LNG facility located in West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania that has a storage capacity of 1,200 mmcf and a send out capacity of 157 mmcf/day and a propane air plant located in Chester, Pennsylvania, with a tank storage capacity of 1,980,000 gallons and a peaking capability of 25 mmcf/day. In addition, PECO owns 29 natural gas city gate stations at various locations throughout its gas service territory. First Mortgage and Insurance The principal properties of PECO are subject to the lien of PECOs Mortgage dated May 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented, under which PECOs first and refunding mortgage bonds are issued. PECO maintains property insurance against loss or damage to its properties by fire or other perils, subject to certain exceptions. For its insured losses, PECO is self insured to the extent that any losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of PECO. Exelon Security Measures The Registrants have initiated and work to maintain security measures. On a continuing basis, the Registrants evaluate enhanced security measures at certain critical locations, enhanced response and recovery plans, long term design changes and redundancy measures. Additionally, the energy industry has strategic relationships with governmental authorities to ensure that emergency plans are in place and critical infrastructure vulnerabilities are addressed in order to maintain the reliability of the countrys energy systems. 53 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO The Registrants are parties to various lawsuits and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. For information regarding material lawsuits and proceedings, see Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such descriptions are incorporated herein by these references. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 54 Table of Contents PART II (Dollars in millions except per share data, unless otherwise noted) ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Exelon Exelons common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of January 29, 2010, there were 659,895,066 shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 135,286 record holders of common stock. The following table presents the New York Stock Exchange Composite Common Stock Prices and dividends by quarter on a per share basis: 2009 2008 FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter FourthQuarter ThirdQuarter SecondQuarter FirstQuarter High price $ 51.98 $ 54.47 $ 51.46 $ 58.98 $ 63.84 $ 92.13 $ 91.84 $ 87.25 Low price 45.90 47.30 44.24 38.41 41.23 60.00 81.00 70.00 Close 48.87 49.62 50.12 45.39 55.61 62.62 89.96 81.27 Dividends 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.525 0.500 0.500 0.500 55 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below illustrates a five year comparison of cumulative total returns based on an initial investment of $100 in Exelon Corporation common stock, as compared with the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Utility Index for the period 2005 through 2009. This performance chart assumes: $100 invested on December 31, 2004 in Exelon Corporation common stock, in the S&P 500 Stock Index and in the S&P Utility Index; and All dividends are reinvested. Generation As of January 29, 2010, Exelon held the entire membership interest in Generation. ComEd As of January 29, 2010, there were 127,016,519 outstanding shares of common stock, $12.50 par value, of ComEd, of which 127,002,904 shares were indirectly held by Exelon. At January 29, 2010, in addition to Exelon, there were 252 record holders of ComEd common stock. There is no established market for shares of the common stock of ComEd. 56 Table of Contents PECO As of January 29, 2010, there were 170,478,507 outstanding shares of common stock, without par value, of PECO, all of which were indirectly held by Exelon. Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Dividends Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from retained, undistributed or current earnings. A significant loss recorded at Generation, ComEd or PECO may limit the dividends that these companies can distribute to Exelon. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. What constitutes funds properly included in capital account is undefined in the Federal Power Act or the related regulations; however, FERC has consistently interpreted the provision to allow dividends to be paid as long as (1) the source of the dividends is clearly disclosed, (2) the dividend is not excessive and (3) there is no self dealing on the part of corporate officials. While these restrictions may limit the absolute amount of dividends that a particular subsidiary may pay, Exelon does not believe these limitations are materially limiting because, under these limitations, the subsidiaries are allowed to pay dividends sufficient to meet Exelons actual cash needs. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock unless, among other things, [its] earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay same after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless it has specific authorization from the ICC. ComEd has also agreed in connection with financings arranged through ComEd Financing III that it will not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debt securities issued to ComEd Financing III; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the preferred trust securities of ComEd Financing III; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debt securities are issued. PECOs Articles of Incorporation prohibit payment of any dividend on, or other distribution to the holders of, common stock if, after giving effect thereto, the capital of PECO represented by its common stock together with its retained earnings is, in the aggregate, less than the involuntary liquidating value of its then outstanding preferred securities. At December 31, 2009, such capital was $2.7 billion and amounted to about 32 times the liquidating value of the outstanding preferred securities of $87 million. PECO may not declare dividends on any shares of its capital stock in the event that: (1) it exercises its right to extend the interest payment periods on the subordinated debentures which were issued to PEC L.P. or PECO Trust IV; (2) it defaults on its guarantee of the payment of distributions on the Series D Preferred Securities of PEC L.P. or the preferred trust securities of PECO Trust IV; or (3) an event of default occurs under the Indenture under which the subordinated debentures are issued. At December 31, 2009, Exelon had retained earnings of $8,134 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,169 million, ComEds retained earnings of $304 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $1,943 million, partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficits and PECOs retained earnings of $426 million. 57 Table of Contents The following table sets forth Exelons quarterly cash dividends per share paid during 2009 and 2008: 2009 2008 (per share) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Exelon $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.525 $ 0.500 $ 0.500 $ 0.500 The following table sets forth Generations quarterly distributions and ComEds and PECOs quarterly common dividend payments: 2009 2008(a) (in millions) 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter 4thQuarter 3rdQuarter 2ndQuarter 1stQuarter Generation $ 475 $ 1,126 $ 396 $ 279 $ 301 $ 253 $ 302 $ 689 ComEd 60 60 60 60 PECO 65 93 67 87 98 146 97 139 (a) During 2008, ComEd did not pay a dividend in order to manage cash flows and its capital structure. On January 26, 2010, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock. The dividend is payable on March 10, 2010, to shareholders of record of Exelon at the end of the day on February 16, 2010. 58 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Exelon The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Exelon. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Exelons Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 17,318 $ 18,859 $ 18,916 $ 15,655 $ 15,357 Operating income 4,750 5,299 4,668 3,521 2,724 Income from continuing operations $ 2,706 $ 2,717 $ 2,726 $ 1,590 $ 951 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 1 20 10 2 14 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,707 2,737 2,736 1,592 965 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (42 ) Net income (a) $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ 2,736 $ 1,592 $ 923 Earnings per average common share (diluted): Income from continuing operations $ 4.09 $ 4.10 $ 4.03 $ 2.35 $ 1.40 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 0.03 0.02 0.02 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (0.06 ) Net income $ 4.09 $ 4.13 $ 4.05 $ 2.35 $ 1.36 Dividends per common share $ 2.10 $ 2.03 $ 1.76 $ 1.60 $ 1.60 Average shares of common stock outstanding diluted 662 662 676 676 676 (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006; and 2006 and 2005 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, In millions 2009 2008 (c) 2007 (b)(c) 2006 (b)(c) 2005 (b)(c) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 5,441 $ 5,130 $ 4,416 $ 4,130 $ 3,808 Property, plant and equipment, net 27,341 25,813 24,153 22,775 21,981 Noncurrent regulatory assets 4,872 5,940 5,133 5,808 4,734 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,694 3,475 Other deferred debits and other assets 8,901 8,038 8,760 7,933 7,858 Total assets $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 $ 43,340 $ 41,856 Current liabilities $ 4,238 $ 3,811 $ 5,466 $ 4,871 $ 5,759 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 11,385 12,592 11,965 11,911 11,760 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,492 2,520 3,301 3,025 2,518 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 17,338 17,489 14,131 13,439 12,606 Minority interest 1 Preferred securities of subsidiary 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 12,640 11,047 10,137 10,007 9,125 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 49,180 $ 47,546 $ 45,087 $ 43,340 $ 41,856 (a) The changes between 2006 and 2005 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charge of $776 million in 2006. 59 Table of Contents (b) Exelon and Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. (c) Exelon and Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform to the current year presentation. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Generation The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Generation. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with Generations Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ 10,749 $ 9,143 $ 9,046 Operating income 3,295 3,994 3,392 2,396 1,852 Income from continuing operations $ 2,122 $ 2,258 $ 2,025 $ 1,403 $ 1,109 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 20 4 4 19 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,122 2,278 2,029 1,407 1,128 Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (net of income taxes) (30 ) Net income $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ 2,029 $ 1,407 $ 1,098 December 31, in millions 2009 2008 (a) 2007 (a,b) 2006 (a,b) 2005 (a,b) Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 3,360 $ 3,486 $ 2,160 $ 2,571 $ 2,211 Property, plant and equipment, net 9,809 8,907 8,043 7,514 7,464 Deferred debits and other assets 9,237 7,691 8,044 7,845 7,108 Total assets $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 $ 17,930 $ 16,783 Current liabilities $ 2,262 $ 2,168 $ 1,917 $ 1,990 $ 2,596 Long term debt 2,967 2,502 2,513 1,778 1,788 Deferred credits and other liabilities 10,385 8,848 9,447 8,678 8,417 Minority interest 2 1 1 1 2 Members equity 6,790 6,565 4,369 5,483 3,980 Total liabilities and members equity $ 22,406 $ 20,084 $ 18,247 $ 17,930 $ 16,783 (a) Exelon and Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform with the current year presentation. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. (b) Exelon and Generation reclassified certain assets and liabilities in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance for offsetting amounts related to qualifying derivative contracts. 60 Table of Contents ComEd The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of ComEd. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with ComEds Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ 6,104 $ 6,101 $ 6,264 Operating income (loss) 843 667 512 555 (12 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 374 $ 201 $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (676 ) Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (9 ) Net income (loss) (a) $ 374 $ 201 $ 165 $ (112 ) $ (685 ) (a) The changes between 2007 and 2006 and 2006 and 2005 were primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of $776 million and $1.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. December 31, in millions 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,579 $ 1,309 $ 1,241 $ 1,007 $ 1,024 Property, plant and equipment, net 12,125 11,655 11,127 10,457 9,906 Goodwill (a) 2,625 2,625 2,625 2,694 3,475 Noncurrent regulatory assets 1,096 858 503 532 280 Other deferred debits and other assets 3,272 2,790 3,880 3,084 2,806 Total assets $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 Current liabilities $ 1,597 $ 1,153 $ 1,712 $ 1,600 $ 2,308 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 4,704 4,915 4,384 4,133 3,541 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 3,145 2,440 3,447 2,824 2,450 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 4,369 3,994 3,305 2,919 2,796 Shareholders equity 6,882 6,735 6,528 6,298 6,396 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 20,697 $ 19,237 $ 19,376 $ 17,774 $ 17,491 (a) The change between 2006 and 2005 was primarily due to the impact of the goodwill impairment charge of $776 million in 2006. 61 Table of Contents PECO The selected financial data presented below has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of PECO. This data is qualified in its entirety by reference to and should be read in conjunction with PECOs Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in ITEM 7 of this Report on Form 10 K. For the Years Ended December 31, in millions, except for per share data 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Statement of Operations data: Operating revenues $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ 5,613 $ 5,168 $ 4,910 Operating income 697 699 947 866 1,049 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 353 $ 325 $ 507 $ 441 $ 520 Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (net of income taxes) (3 ) Net income 353 325 507 441 517 Net income on common stock $ 349 $ 321 $ 503 $ 437 $ 513 December 31, in millions 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Balance Sheet data: Current assets $ 1,006 $ 819 $ 800 $ 762 $ 795 Property, plant and equipment, net 5,297 5,074 4,842 4,651 4,471 Noncurrent regulatory assets 1,834 2,597 3,273 3,896 4,454 Other deferred debits and other assets 882 679 895 464 366 Total assets $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 Current liabilities $ 939 $ 981 $ 1,516 $ 978 $ 936 Long term debt, including long term debt to financing trusts 2,405 2,960 2,866 3,784 4,143 Noncurrent regulatory liabilities 317 49 250 151 68 Other deferred credits and other liabilities 2,706 2,910 3,068 3,051 3,235 Preferred securities 87 87 87 87 87 Shareholders equity 2,565 2,182 2,023 1,722 1,617 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 9,019 $ 9,169 $ 9,810 $ 9,773 $ 10,086 62 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as an operating segment: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $2,707 million in 2009 as compared to $2,737 million in 2008, and diluted earnings per average common share were $4.09 in 2009 as compared to $4.13 in 2008. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income tax. Exelons 2009 results were significantly affected by lower revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense at Generation of $411 million. This decrease was primarily due to reduced net mark to market gains from its hedging activities of $271 million and unfavorable portfolio and market conditions of $206 million. Additionally, Generation experienced higher nuclear fuel costs of $74 million. Partially offsetting these decreases were lower costs associated with the Illinois Settlement of $123 million. ComEd experienced higher revenue net of purchased power expense of $155 million despite unfavorable weather conditions and reduced load. Distribution pricing increased ComEds operating revenues by $214 million primarily due to the ICCs September 2008 order in the 2007 distribution rate case. This increase was partially offset by the impact of current economic conditions and unfavorable weather, which reduced ComEds load resulting in lower revenue net of purchased power expense of $40 million and $45 million, respectively. PECO had a slight increase of $16 million in its revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense primarily due to increased gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2009 resulting from the settlement of 2008 rate case, which provided $77 million of additional revenues in 2009. PECOs increased revenues also reflected the impact of lower electric distribution rates in 2008 of $22 million primarily due 63 Table of Contents to the refund of the 2007 PURTA settlement (which was completely offset in charges recorded in taxes other than income). Similar to ComEd, these increases were partially offset by the impact of current economic conditions and unfavorable weather, which reduced PECOs load resulting in lower revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense of $69 million and $21 million, respectively. Exelons 2009 results were also affected by higher operating and maintenance expense at Generation. In March 2009, Generation re evaluated the fair value of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations due to the continued decline in forward energy prices, which resulted in a $223 million impairment charge. In December 2009, Generation announced that it had notified PJM of its intention to permanently retire four fossil fired generation units in Pennsylvania because they are no longer economic to operate and are not required to meet demand for electricity in the region. In connection with the announced retirements, Generation recorded a charge of $24 million related to exit costs as well as $32 million of accelerated depreciation. Additionally, Exelons pension and other postretirement benefits expense increased by $160 million in 2009 due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. There was also a scheduled increase in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $90 million in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and increased depreciation of $69 million across the Registrants due to ongoing capital expenditures. In response to current market and economic conditions, Exelon implemented a cost savings program in 2009. This initiative included job reductions, for which Exelon recorded a $34 million charge related to severance expenses, and a $350 million discretionary contribution to Exelons largest pension fund, which is expected to reduce pension expense over the next ten years. PECO generated additional cost savings through enhancements to credit processes and increased collection and termination activities initiated in 2008, which reduced the allowance for uncollectible accounts expense by $97 million. In addition, ComEds and PECOs incremental storm related costs decreased by $40 million and $9 million, respectively. Exelons interest expense decreased by $140 million primarily due to lower outstanding debt at ComEd and PECO and lower interest rates on Generations SNF obligation. Additionally, Exelon was able to capitalize on favorable capital market conditions in its refinancing of $1.2 billion of debt at Exelon and Generation originally scheduled to mature in 2011. Although this debt offering resulted in $120 million in debt extinguishment costs, it decreased Exelons average cost of debt while also extending the maturities of the debt. Exelons 2009 results were also significantly affected by NDT realized and unrealized gains of $256 million in 2009 compared to realized and unrealized losses of $308 million in 2008 for the former AmerGen nuclear generating units and portions of the Peach Bottom nuclear generating units (Non Regulatory Agreement Units) as a result of improved market performance. Finally, Exelon reassessed anticipated apportionment of its income, resulting in a change in state deferred income tax rates, and ComEd remeasured income tax uncertainties related to its 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. These two actions resulted in an aggregate non cash gain of $83 million. For further detail regarding 2009 Financial Results, including explanation of non GAAP measures, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. 64 Table of Contents Outlook for 2010 and Beyond. Economic and Market Conditions Although financial markets have been relatively stable since last summer, manufacturing has remained weak and unemployment rates are still high. As a result, Exelon continues to be challenged by current economic conditions. The demand for electricity has been lower in the ComEd and PECO service territories, meaning relatively fewer retail sales in both areas than in previous years. Lower demand and other factors associated with the global slowdown in economic activity have caused oil, coal and natural gas prices to fall, and have also depressed wholesale electricity prices and therefore led to lower margins for Exelons wholesale generation fleet. With respect to natural gas in particular, the price of which is generally the most closely correlated to the price of electricity, the reduction has been significant. A fundamentally oversupplied natural gas market has resulted at times in prices below $3 per million British Thermal Units. Additionally, factors other than the weak global economy have contributed to lower natural gas prices. In particular, recent technological innovation has enabled the extraction of natural gas from North Americas vast shale formations at a cost that the markets can support even in a lower price environment. Exelons existing hedging policies are intended to reduce price volatility and maintain financial discipline. Although Exelons hedging policies have helped protect Exelons earnings as markets have declined, a period of prolonged depressed electricity prices would adversely impact Exelons and Generations results of operations in the future. Further discussion of commodity price risk is included in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The volatility in the economy could affect the Registrants business. The Registrants have continued to assess the impact, if any, of market developments on their respective financial condition, including access to liquidity, counterparty creditworthiness, and the value of investments and other assets. See PART I. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the effects of continued uncertainty in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. New Growth Opportunities Generation pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize shareholder value, taking earnings, cash flow and financial risk into account. During 2009, Generation announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that will generate between 1,300 and 1,500 MW of additional generation capacity within eight years. The uprate projects represent a total investment of approximately $3.5 billion, as measured in current costs. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately one quarter of the planned uprates, are underway at the Limerick and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants in Illinois. The remainder of uprate MW will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2010 and ending in 2017. At 1,500 nuclear generated MW, the uprates would displace 8 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates have an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. 65 Table of Contents PECO plans to implement Smart Meter and Smart Grid technologies for all customers within their service territory to comply with Act 129. PECO plans to spend approximately $650 million on Smart Meter and Smart Grid investments, which is expected to be recovered with a return on investment from customers through regulated rates. In October 2009, the DOE announced its intent to award PECO $200 million in the ARRA of 2009 matching grant funds under the Smart Grid Investment Grant Program. PECO will deduct any costs paid with DOE funds from amounts recoverable from customers. The new infrastructure will provide the basis for the communications network and information systems to integrate customer energy usage with utility operations, enabling two way communication. Assuming successful completion of the DOE negotiations and PECOs receipt of the full grant on reasonable terms, PECO is committed to implementing expanded initial deployment of 600,000 meters within three years and accelerating universal smart meter deployment from 15 years to 10 years. In addition, PECO may have additional costs associated with the replacement of gas meters and the wind down of its legacy automated meter reading system. In October 2009, the ICC approved ComEds proposed AMI pilot program, with minor modifications, and recovery of substantially all program costs from customers. ComEd expects to have the program fully implemented in early summer 2010. The total anticipated cost of the pilot program is approximately $69 million. The AMI pilot program allows ComEd to study the costs and benefits related to automated metering and to develop the cost estimate of potential full system wide implementation of AMI. In addition, the program allows customers the ability to manage energy use, improve energy efficiency and lower energy bills. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements for more information. In the third quarter of 2009, Exelon established Exelon Transmission, which is a new venture that will seek to capitalize on the growing national market for new transmission lines. Exelon Transmission enters a market in which U.S. companies are projected to spend $60 $100 billion on transmission development projects by 2020. New transmission projects have the potential to reduce congestion, improve reliability, and facilitate movement of renewable energy, such as wind and solar, to population centers where it is needed most. Exelon will leverage existing members of management for the initial phases of the project. Exelon Transmissions portfolio will evolve over time and may include projects with both traditional, regulated profiles as well as more competitive, market based investments. Exelon expects to provide $10 million in funding to Exelon Transmission in 2010. Additional expenditures will be determined on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. Liquidity and Cost Management Exelon is subject to significant ongoing cost pressures during these challenging economic times. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. In 2009, Exelon launched a company wide cost management initiative, which combines short term actions with long term change. In the short term, Exelon realized cost savings of approximately $200 million in 2009 over 2008, primarily as a result of the elimination of 500 positions within BSC and ComEd, productivity improvements and stringent controls on supply spending, contracting and overtime costs. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and expects to largely offset increasing pension and benefits expense and general inflation in 2010 with additional cost savings, including freezing executive salaries and reducing employee benefits. With regard to long term changes, Exelon is analyzing cost trends over the past five years to identify future cost savings opportunities and implementing more planning and performance measurement tools that allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. 66 Table of Contents The Registrants credit facilities largely extend through October 2012 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and February 2011 for ComEd. These credit facilities currently provide sufficient liquidity to the Registrants. Additionally, upon maturity of these credit facilities, the Registrants may not be able to renew or replace these existing facilities at current terms or commitment levels from banks. Consequently, the Registrants may face increased costs for liquidity needs and may choose to establish alternative liquidity sources to supply the balance of their needs beginning in 2010 for ComEd and in 2011 for Exelon, Generation and PECO. Regulatory Matters In July 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois which provides public utility companies the ability to bill or refund customers for the difference between the companys annual uncollectible expense and amounts collected in rates through a rider mechanism. The legislation allows a public utility company to bill customers for under collections of accounts starting with 2008 and prospectively. ComEd under collected approximately $26 million during 2008 and approximately $44 million during 2009. On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order approving ComEds proposed tariffs for collecting the increases or decreases in uncollectible accounts expense, with minor modifications. With the ICCs approval of the tariff, ComEd will begin collecting past due amounts in April 2010. ComEd will record the $70 million benefit in the first quarter of 2010. ComEd is also required to make a one time contribution of approximately $10 million to the Supplemental Low Income Energy Assistance Fund to assist low income residential customers through the forgiveness of a portion of past due amounts. During 2009, PECO, in accordance with its PAPUC approved DSP Program, conducted two competitive procurements and entered into contracts with various counterparties, which included Generation, to procure electric supply for the residential, small commercial and medium commercial procurement classes beginning in 2011 in preparation for the expiration of its electric generation rate caps and its PPA with Generation on December 31, 2010. PECO will procure additional electric supply through seven more procurements of full requirements and forward purchase energy block contracts of varying lengths in accordance with the plan approved by the PAPUC. PECO has also been engaged in regulatory proceedings including Rate Mitigation Plans, Energy Efficiency and Conservation Plan and other regulatory filings to comply with the requirements of Act 129. Although these proceedings support competitive, market based procurement during the 29 month term of the approved DSP Program, elected officials in Pennsylvania have suggested rate increase deferrals and phase ins, rate cap extensions, a generation tax and contributions of value by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs that could have a significant impact on PECO and Generation. The Pennsylvania Legislature is currently considering HB 80, which, if enacted into law, would increase the minimum required percentage of electric energy to be procured from alternative energy resources in Pennsylvania, expand the solar purchase and sale requirements and would incorporate advanced coal combustion with limited carbon emissions as an acceptable alternative energy resource. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to these matters. Environmental Legislation Exelon supports the passage of comprehensive climate change legislation that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce GHG 67 Table of Contents emissions in the United States. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2454. Among its various components, the bill proposes mandatory, economy wide GHG reduction targets and goals that would be achieved via a Federal emissions cap and trade program. If enacted, H.R. 2454 is expected to increase wholesale power prices as generating units reflect the price of carbon emission permits and the cost of emission reduction technology in their bids to supply energy to wholesale markets in order to recover their costs of compliance with carbon regulation. Due to its overall low carbon generation portfolio, under the provisions of H.R. 2454, Exelon expects that its operating revenues would increase significantly. In September 2009, the U.S. Senate introduced its version of climate change legislation that is similar to H.R. 2454, but does not yet provide specific details regarding allowance allocations. Any bill passed by the U.S. Senate would need to be reconciled with H.R. 2454, approved by both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, and signed by President Obama before becoming law. Exelon announced on May 6, 2005 that it had established a voluntary goal to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. This goal was achieved by December 31, 2008 through Exelons planned GHG management efforts, including the previous closure of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and its current energy efficiency initiatives. In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). See Item 1. General Business for further discussion of Exelons voluntary GHG emissions reductions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Healthcare Reform Legislation In 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate each passed its own version of healthcare reform bills that would fundamentally change the nations healthcare system. Due to the uncertainty as to the final outcome of Federal healthcare reform legislation, the Registrants are unable to estimate the effects on their respective results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. Competitive Markets Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2010 and 2011. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2009, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 91% 94%, 69% 72% and 37% 40% for 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this price risk in subsequent years as well. PECO has transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk 68 Table of Contents related to its procurement of electricity to Generation through a PPA that expires on December 31, 2010. Since PECO entered into its PPA with Generation, market prices for energy have generally been higher than the generation rates PECO has paid for purchased power, which represents the rates paid by PECO customers. Generations margins on its other sales have therefore generally been higher. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 will likely result in increases in margins earned by Generation beginning in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA. While Generations three year ratable hedging program considers the expiration of the PPA the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Both PECO and ComEd mitigate exposure to commodity price risk through the recovery of procurement costs from retail customers. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 56% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2010 through 2014 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies on a unit by unit basis to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning 69 Table of Contents activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternatives and timing scenarios on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% (high cost scenario) or minus 15% (low cost scenario) over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2009 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 364 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 126 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 231 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 305 If the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF were to be extended to 2030, Generations aggregate nuclear decommissioning obligation would be reduced by an immaterial amount. 70 Table of Contents Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions or the expected timing or estimated amount of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments (Exelon and Generation) The NDT fund investments have been established to satisfy Exelons and Generations nuclear decommissioning obligations. The NDT funds hold debt and equity securities directly and indirectly through commingled funds. Generations investment policies place limitations on the types and investment grade ratings of the securities that may be held by the NDTs. These policies restrict the NDT funds from holding alternative investments and limit the NDT funds exposures to investments in highly illiquid markets. On January 1, 2008, in order to align the accounting treatment of changes in the fair value of NDT fund investments in both an unrealized gain and an unrealized loss position, Generation elected the irrevocable option to measure financial assets and liabilities at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings with respect to these investments. Therefore, the investments are carried at fair value with all changes in fair value being recognized through the statement of operations. See Notes 7 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the NDT funds. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. In general, in applying the second step, fair value increases to assets and or fair value decreases to liabilities would increase the size of any impairment. For example, a decrease in the fair value of ComEds debt would increase the size of any impairment and vice versa. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units, determining the fair value of the reporting unit and, in applying the second step (if needed), determining the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting entity. See Note 6 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The FASBs fair value measurement and disclosure guidance for all nonrecurring fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and liabilities, including goodwill, was effective for the Registrants as of January 1, 2009. This authoritative guidance clarified that fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants under current market conditions. As a result, Exelon and ComEd now estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis instead of the expected cash flow approach used in 2008 and prior years. The discounted cash flow analysis relies on a single scenario reflecting base case or 71 Table of Contents best estimate projected cash flows for ComEds business and includes an estimate of ComEds terminal value based on these expected cash flows using the generally accepted Gordon Dividend Growth formula, which derives a valuation using an assumed perpetual annuity based on the entitys residual cash flows. The discount rate is based on the generally accepted Capital Asset Pricing Model and represents the weighted average cost of capital of comparable companies. The market multiples analysis utilizes multiples of business enterprise value to earnings, before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of comparable companies in estimating fair value. Significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value include ComEds capital structure, discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance, operating and capital expenditure requirements, fair value of debt, the selection of comparable companies and recent transactions. Management performs a reconciliation of the sum of the estimated fair value of all Exelon reporting units to Exelons enterprise value based on its trading price to corroborate the results of the discounted cash flow analysis and the market multiples analysis. The regulatory environment has provided more certainty related to ComEds future cash flows. Although financial markets have stabilized over the past year, current economic conditions continue to impact the market related assumptions used in the November 1, 2009 annual assessment. While ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2009, deterioration of the market related factors used in the impairment review could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in fair value as of November 1, 2009, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets include general deterioration in the business climate, including current economic energy market conditions, deterioration in the physical condition or operating performance of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity. For ComEd the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the associated future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates that the carrying value of a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. An impairment is reported by the affected Registrant as a reduction to both the long lived asset and current period earnings. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. 72 Table of Contents Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs associated with providing benefits under these plans involve several factors, including development of valuation assumptions and determining accounting elections. When developing the various assumptions that are required, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit costs is affected by the actual rate of return on plan assets, and assumptions, including the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, the anticipated rate of increase of healthcare costs and the level of benefits provided to employees and retirees, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. As required by the authoritative guidance, the impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit 73 Table of Contents obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and postretirement benefit plan assets include equity and fixed income securities held through funds as well as certain alternative investment classes. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification in accordance with authoritative guidance under the fair value hierarchy. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.50%, 8.75% and 8.75% for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 8.10%, 7.80% and 7.85% in 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The EROA is based on current asset allocations as described in Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A change in the asset allocation strategy could impact the EROA and related costs. Exelon will use an EROA of 8.50% and 7.83%, for estimating its 2010 pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have a significant effect on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2009 were approximately 21% compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.5% and 8.1%, respectively. Those return levels are expected to decrease 2010 and 2011 benefit costs as follows: (dollars in millions) Decrease in 2010Pension Cost Decrease in 2010PostretirementBenefit Cost Decrease in 2011Pension Cost Decrease in 2011PostretirementBenefit Cost 2009 asset returns of 21% $ (28 ) $ (29 ) $ (27 ) $ (28 ) This information assumes that movements in asset returns occur absent changes to other actuarial assumptions, and does not consider any actions management may take, such as changes to the amount and timing of future contributions. The actuarial assumptions used in the determination of pension and postretirement benefit costs are interrelated and changes in other assumptions could have the impact of offsetting all or a portion of the potential decrease in benefit costs set forth above. For example, decreases in actual discount rates, absent changes in other assumptions, increase pension and postretirement costs and obligations. Sensitivities of cost and obligations to key actuarial assumptions are discussed in further detail below. 74 Table of Contents Discount Rate. The discount rate for determining both the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations was 5.83%, 6.09% and 6.20% at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to select the discount rates. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end will be used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use a discount rate of 5.83% for estimating its 2010 pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs. Healthcare Cost Trend Rate. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. In determining the healthcare cost trend rate, Exelon reviews actual recent cost trends and projected future trends. Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions: The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension OtherPostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2009 cost: Discount rate (0.5)% $ 44 $ 26 $ 70 EROA (0.5)% 46 6 52 Healthcare trend rate 1.00% 49 49 (1.00)% (40 ) (40 ) Extend the year atwhich the ultimatehealthcare trend rate of 5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years 19 19 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2009: Discount rate (0.5)% 727 222 949 EROA (0.5)% Healthcare trend rate 1.00% 448 448 (1.00)% (372 ) (372 ) Extend the year at which the ultimatehealthcare trend rate of5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years 152 152 Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain of its actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs over participants average remaining service period related to eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over 75 Table of Contents participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.7 years, 12.8 years and 13.0 years for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 6.8 years, 6.9 years and 6.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.2 years, 9.4 years and 9.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for future recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues collected from customers in excess of prescribed recovery that must be refunded to customers through an adjustment of billing rates. Use of this guidance is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable expectation that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2009, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of those operations, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria would be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2009, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.7 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2009, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $1.5 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against OCI (before taxes) of up to $2.5 billion and $92 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A significant decrease in equity as a result of any changes could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 2, 6 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments and recent rate orders, including for other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies, as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that will ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of the appropriate regulatory process. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant 76 Table of Contents experience with regulatory bodies, known circumstances specific to a particular matter, discussions held with the applicable regulatory body and other factors. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual events, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. As part of the preparation for the expiration of the PPA with Generation at the end of 2010, PECO has entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and the uranium markets are not sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded in a regulatory asset or liability. 77 Table of Contents Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of the initial ComEd procurement auction and the subsequent RFP process, PECOs full requirements fixed price contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and all of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives, qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and book outs (financial settlements). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives are valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations 78 Table of Contents reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, including assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk were not material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The Registrants use a calculation of future cash inflows and estimated future outflows related to the swap agreements, which are discounted and netted to determine the current fair value. Additional inputs to the present value calculation include the contract terms, as well as market parameters such as interest rates and volatility. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 7 and 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. The Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for uncertain tax positions. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. 79 Table of Contents The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimable based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of probable losses on the accounts receivable balances. The allowance is based on known troubled accounts, 80 Table of Contents historical experience and other currently available evidence. For ComEd and PECO, customer accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. Customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory guidelines. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories and are prohibited from terminating electric service to certain residential customers due to nonpayment during certain months of the year. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Generation $ 2,122 $ 2,258 $ (136 ) $ 2,025 $ 233 ComEd 374 201 173 165 36 PECO 353 325 28 507 (182 ) Other (a) (143 ) (67 ) (76 ) 29 (96 ) Total $ 2,706 $ 2,717 $ (11 ) $ 2,726 $ (9 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 81 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Generation $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ (156 ) $ 2,029 $ 249 ComEd 374 201 173 165 36 PECO 353 325 28 507 (182 ) Other (a) (142 ) (67 ) (75 ) 35 (102 ) Total $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ (30 ) $ 2,736 $ 1 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Operating revenues $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ (1,051 ) $ 10,749 $ 5 Purchased power and fuel expense 2,932 3,572 640 4,451 879 Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,771 7,182 (411 ) 6,298 884 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 2,938 2,717 (221 ) 2,454 (263 ) Depreciation and amortization 333 274 (59 ) 267 (7 ) Taxes other than income 205 197 (8 ) 185 (12 ) Total other operating expenses 3,476 3,188 (288 ) 2,906 (282 ) Operating income 3,295 3,994 (699 ) 3,392 602 Other income and deductions Interest expense (113 ) (136 ) 23 (161 ) 25 Equity in earnings (losses) of investments (3 ) (1 ) (2 ) 1 (2 ) Other, net 376 (469 ) 845 155 (624 ) Total other income and deductions 260 (606 ) 866 (5 ) (601 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,555 3,388 167 3,387 1 Income taxes 1,433 1,130 (303 ) 1,362 232 Income from continuing operations 2,122 2,258 (136 ) 2,025 233 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 (20 ) 4 16 Net income $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ (156 ) $ 2,029 $ 249 (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 82 Table of Contents Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were significantly affected by lower revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense primarily due to unfavorable portfolio and market conditions, including decreased net mark to market gains from its hedging activities, and revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio recorded in 2008. Additionally, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was affected by gains related to the settlement of uranium supply agreements in 2008 and higher nuclear fuel costs in 2009 due to rising nuclear fuel prices. The decrease in Generations revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by lower costs related to the Illinois Settlement. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were further affected by higher operating and maintenance expenses. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations and costs associated with the announced shut down of three coal fired and one dual fossil fired generation unit in Pennsylvania. These actions were a direct result of current and future expected market conditions. Market conditions also contributed to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008, which resulted in higher pension and other postretirement benefits expense in 2009. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by the favorable results of Exelons companywide cost savings initiative and lower nuclear refueling outage costs. Additionally, due to a significant rebound in the financial markets, Generation experienced strong performance in its NDT funds in 2009. As a result, Generations earnings improved as its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units had significant net realized and unrealized gains in 2009 compared to significant net realized and unrealized losses in 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generations 2008 results were significantly affected by higher revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense compared to 2007 primarily due to favorable portfolio and market conditions, including increased net mark to market gains from its hedging activities, and revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio recorded in 2008, which were primarily the result of favorable energy prices. Additionally, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was affected by lower costs incurred in conjunction with the Illinois Settlement and the gain on the termination of the State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line) PPA in 2007. Generations 2008 results compared to 2007 were further affected by higher operating and maintenance expenses. Higher operating and maintenance expenses included higher nuclear planned refueling outage costs and higher labor and contracting costs. Additionally, due to a sharp decline in the financial markets, Generations NDTs of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units had significant net realized and unrealized losses in 2008. 83 Table of Contents Operating Revenues For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 2007 2008 vs. 2007 Variance %Change Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,470 $ 3,588 $ (118 ) (3.3 )% $ 3,537 $ 51 1.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 5,978 6,693 (715 ) (10.7 )% 6,834 (141 ) (2.1 )% Total electric sales revenue 9,448 10,281 (833 ) (8.1 )% 10,371 (90 ) (0.9 )% Retail gas sales 295 497 (202 ) (40.6 )% 449 48 10.7 % Trading portfolio 1 106 (105 ) (99.1 )% 43 63 146.5 % Other operating revenue (a) (41 ) (130 ) 89 68.5 % (114 ) (16 ) (14.0 )% Total operating revenues $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ (1,051 ) (9.8 )% $ 10,749 $ 5 0.0 % (a) Includes costs incurred for the Illinois Settlement and revenues relating to fossil fuel sales and decommissioning revenue from PECO during 2009, 2008 and 2007. Sales (in GWh) 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 2007 2008 vs. 2007 Variance %Change Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates 58,643 64,652 (6,009 ) (9.3 )% 64,406 246 0.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 114,422 111,522 2,900 2.6 % 125,244 (13,722 ) (11.0 )% Total electric sales 173,065 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% Trading volumes of 7,578 GWh, 8,891 GWh and 20,323 GWh for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. The changes in Generations electric sales to affiliates for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Electric sales to affiliates Variance 2009 vs. 2008 Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Price Volume (Decrease) Price Volume Increase ComEd $ 264 $ (313 ) $ (49 ) $ (13 ) $ 40 $ 27 PECO (14 ) (55 ) (69 ) 43 (19 ) 24 Total $ 250 $ (368 ) $ (118 ) $ 30 $ 21 $ 51 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Of the $264 million price variance in the ComEd territories, $294 million is related to an increase in settlements from the ComEd swap. This increase is partially offset by decreased prices realized for sales under the RFP. The volume decrease in the ComEd territories is due primarily to the expiration of certain tranches served under the auction contract, partially offset by an increase in deliveries to ComEd under the RFP. In the PECO territories, the decrease in price reflects an unfavorable change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPA with Generation and the volume decrease was primarily due to unfavorable economic conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. In the ComEd territories, the volume increase was primarily the result of an acquisition by Generation of an unrelated third partys supply obligations under the ComEd auction effective January 1, 2008, as well as volumes sold under the ComEd RFP, which started in September 2008. The price decrease in the ComEd 84 Table of Contents territories was largely due to final reconciliation activity recorded in 2007 associated with the full requirements ComEd PPA which ended on December 31, 2006. This decrease was offset by a $29 million increase in revenue related to the ComEd RFP. In the PECO territories, the price increase reflects a favorable change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPA with Generation, in addition to the effects of the last scheduled rate increase under the PPA, which took effect in mid January 2007. The volume decrease in the PECO territories was primarily due to unfavorable weather conditions. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The decrease in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) 2009vs.2008 2008vs.2007 Price $ (891 ) $ 606 Volume 176 (747 ) Decrease in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (715 ) $ (141 ) Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily the result of an overall decrease in market prices, partially mitigated by higher volumes of generation sold to the wholesale and retail markets as a result of a decrease in affiliate load served and increased nuclear generation as a result of a decrease in refueling and non refueling outage days. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in volumes was reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts in addition to lower volumes of generation sold to the market, including the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in October 2007. The increase in price was primarily the result of an overall increase in market prices. Retail gas sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Retail gas sales decreased $202 million of which $131 million was due to lower realized prices and $71 million was due to lower volumes as a result of decreased demand. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Retail gas sales increased $48 million of which $74 million was due to higher realized prices, partially offset by a $26 million decrease due to lower volumes as a result of decreased demand. Trading Portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The trading portfolio revenues decreased $105 million which was due primarily to earnings in 2008 from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The trading portfolio revenues increased $63 million which was due primarily to earnings from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio in 2008. Other revenue. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in other revenues was primarily due to $123 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the 2007 Illinois Settlement further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, partially offset by $24 million in lower fuel sales. 85 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in other revenues was primarily due to $223 million of income in 2007 associated with the termination of State Line PPA, partially offset by $187 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the 2007 Illinois Settlement and a $14 million Salem oil spill settlement received in December 2008. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the oil spill settlement. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Supply Source (in GWh) 2009 2008 Variance %Change 2007 Variance %Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,670 139,342 328 0.2 % 140,359 (1,017 ) (0.7 )% Purchases 23,206 26,263 (3,057 ) (11.6 )% 38,021 (11,758 ) (30.9 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 10,189 10,569 (380 ) (3.6 )% 11,270 (701 ) (6.2 )% Total supply 173,065 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem Generating Station (Salem), which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. The following table presents changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007. Generation considers the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense as a useful measure to analyze the profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. Variance 2009 vs. 2008 Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Purchased power costs and tolling agreement costs (a) $ (610 ) $ (306 ) $ (916 ) $ 767 $ (825 ) $ (58 ) Generation costs (b) 168 168 (77 ) (12 ) (89 ) Retail Fuel Costs (146 ) (70 ) (216 ) 87 (25 ) 62 Mark to market n.m. n.m. 271 n.m. n.m. (623 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (693 ) $ (708 ) (a) Variance for 2008 as compared to 2007 presented excludes the net impact of a $119 million loss recorded in 2007 associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Variance for both periods excludes gains of approximately $53 million related to non performance claims for uranium supply agreements recorded in 2008. n.m. Not meaningful. Purchased Power Costs and Tolling Agreement Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation incurred overall lower prices for purchased power as a result of the decline in market prices. Generations decreased purchased power volumes were driven by unfavorable market conditions. 86 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to market conditions that resulted in decreased purchases from contracted units as well as decreased volumes due to the termination of the State Line PPA in October 2007. The decrease in volumes was also reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts. Generation incurred overall higher prices for purchased power as a result of an overall increase in market prices. Further, Generations purchased power costs increased $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in the first quarter of 2007. Generation Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Generation costs include fuel costs for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the same period in 2008 primarily as a result of an increase in the cost of nuclear and fossil fuels. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation experienced overall lower generation costs for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the same period in 2007 due to decreased fossil fuel costs, lower volumes and gains associated with uranium supply agreement costs, partially offset by increased costs for uranium and fossil fuel inventory impairments of $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. Retail Fuel Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Retail fuel cost includes retail gas purchases. The changes in Generations retail fuel costs for 2009 as compared to 2008 consisted of overall lower prices resulting in a decrease of $146 million. This was in addition to lower demand resulting in a volume decrease of $70 million. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The changes in Generations retail fuel costs for 2008 as compared to 2007 consisted of overall higher prices resulting in an increase of $75 million, in addition to a retail gas inventory impairment of $12 million during the year 2008. These increases were offset by lower volumes caused by lower demand, which resulted in a decrease of $25 million. Mark to market. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $94 million in 2009, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $414 million in 2008. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $87 million in 2009 compared to gains of $38 million in 2008. See Notes 7 and 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $414 million in 2008 compared to losses of $253 million in 2007. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $38 million in 2008 compared to gains of $81 million in 2007. See Notes 7 and 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. The following table presents average electric revenues, supply costs and margins per MWh of electricity sold during 2009 as compared 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007. As set forth in the table, average electric margins are defined as average electric revenues less average electric supply costs. Generation considers average electric margins useful measures to analyze the change in profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to 87 Table of Contents the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these margins are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. ($/MWh) 2009 2008 2009 vs.2008% Change 2007 2008 vs.2007% Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 54.19 $ 55.50 (2.4 )% $ 54.90 1.1 % Wholesale and retail electric sales (a) 54.79 59.99 (8.7 )% 54.59 9.9 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 54.59 58.35 (6.4 )% 54.70 6.7 % Average electric supply cost (b) (c) excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 16.39 $ 19.87 (17.5 )% $ 19.54 1.7 % Average margin excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 38.20 $ 38.48 (0.7 )% $ 35.16 9.4 % (a) $292 million of pre tax revenue, and $2 million of a pre tax reduction in revenue, resulting from the settlement of the ComEd swap starting in June 2008, have been excluded from Electric sales to affiliates and included in Wholesale and retail electric sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Additionally, $88 million (1,916 GWh) and $29 million (486 GWh) of pre tax revenue, resulting from sales to ComEd under the RFP, which started in September 2008, have been excluded from Electric sales to affiliates and included in Wholesale and retail electric sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 209 and December 31, 2008, respectively. In addition, REC sales to affiliates have been included within Wholesale and retail electric sales. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales excluding the impact of mark to market hedging activities. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales and other sales for all periods presented. (c) For year 2007, excludes the net impact of the $119 million loss related to the execution of the Georgia Power PPA and costs related to the termination of the State Line PPA during 2007. The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2009, as compared to 2008 and 2007, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2009 2008 2007 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.6 % 93.9 % 94.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 16.07 $ 15.87 (b) $ 14.46 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. (b) Excludes the $53 million reduction in fuel expense related to uranium supply agreement non performance settlements. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, decreased primarily due to a higher number of outage days. For 2009 and 2008, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 263 and 241, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 78 and 59, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs, partially offset by lower refueling outage and other labor and contracting costs, resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2009 as compared to 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The nuclear fleet capacity factor decreased primarily due to a higher number of planned refueling outage days. For 2008 88 Table of Contents and 2007, refueling outage days totaled 241 and 195, respectively, while non refueling outage days totaled 59 in both years. The lower number of net MWh generated, the impact of inflation on labor and contracting costs, higher nuclear fuel costs and the refueling outage costs associated with the higher number of refueling outage days resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2008 as compared to 2007. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ 223 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 92 Nuclear insurance credits (b) 28 Announced plant shutdowns (c) 24 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant (d) (46 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (e) (35 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (f) (26 ) Accounts receivable reserve (g) (22 ) Other (17 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 221 (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Notes 6 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2008. No premiums were received for 2009. (c) Reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (d) Primarily reflects the impact of decreased planned and unplanned nuclear outage days in 2009. (e) Primarily reflects the impact of Exelons 2009 cost savings program. (f) Primarily reflects an increased reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009 as compared to 2008. (g) Reflects the impact of an increase in accounts receivable reserves recorded in 2008 as a result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant (a) $ 88 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 74 Decommissioning related activities (b) 47 Accounts receivable reserve (c) 22 Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 19 Nuclear insurance credits (e) 15 New nuclear plant development costs (f) (22 ) Other 20 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 263 (a) Reflects a higher number of nuclear refueling outage days in 2008 compared to 2007. (b) Reflects an increase in the contractual elimination of income taxes associated with the decommissioning trusts funds of the former ComEd and PECO nuclear generating units (Regulatory Agreement Units). (c) Reflects an increase in the accounts receivable reserve recorded in 2008 as a result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 89 Table of Contents (d) Reflects a decreased reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the Non Regulatory Agreement Units and fossil units during 2008 as compared to 2007. (e) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2008 compared to 2007. (f) Reflects a reduction in costs associated with possible construction of a nuclear power plant in southeast Texas. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in $32 million of accelerated depreciation. Additionally, the change in the estimated useful life of a fossil fired power plant in 2008 resulted in $18 million higher depreciation expense in 2009. The remaining increase is primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the impact of the reassessment of the useful lives of several other fossil fired facilities in 2008 and reduced depreciation associated with the generating assets impaired in 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the reassessment of the useful lives of several fossil facilities. The impact of the reassessment of the useful lives did not result in a material change to Generations results of operations as compared to amounts recognized in periods prior to the change. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase was primarily due to a $9 million gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase was primarily due to higher payroll taxes of $11 million and higher property taxes of $8 million, partially offset by a $9 million gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the decrease in interest expense reflects lower interest of $16 million on SNF obligations as a result of lower rates. Interest on the spent fuel obligation accrues at the 13 week Treasury Rate and is recalculated on a quarterly basis. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Additionally, the decrease in interest expense reflects a $16 million increase in capitalized interest during 2009 as compared to 2008. These decreases in interest expense are partially offset by a $9 million increase in interest expense related to uncertain tax positions. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease in interest expense reflected lower interest of $29 million on SNF obligations as a result of lower rates and a $24 million decrease in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of interest on uncertain tax positions, partially offset by increased interest of $27 million from higher outstanding long term debt balances as a result of the September 2007 bond issuance. 90 Table of Contents Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase reflects net unrealized gains in 2009 on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units as compared to net unrealized losses in 2008. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the increase reflects the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2009 compared to the contractual elimination of $202 million of income tax benefit in 2008. These increases are partially offset by the impacts of income in 2008 related to the termination of a gas supply guarantee and $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in the third and fourth quarter of 2009 further described in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease primarily reflects net unrealized losses in 2008 on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units due to adverse financial market conditions, the contractual elimination of income tax benefits associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units, realized losses on the trust funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units due to the execution of a tax planning strategy in 2008, and realized gains in 2007 on NDT fund investments of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units associated with changes in Generations investment strategy, partially offset by a gain on sale of TEG and TEP in 2007. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in other, net for 2009, 2008 and 2007: 2009 2008 2007 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 227 $ (324 ) $ (b) Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 29 $ (39 ) $ 64 Other than temporary impairment of decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units (a) n/a $ n/a $ (9 ) (a) As a result of certain NRC regulations, Exelon and Generation were unable to demonstrate the ability and intent to hold the NDT fund investments through a recovery period and, accordingly, recognized any unrealized holding losses immediately. After the January 1, 2008 adoption of the fair value option, other than temporary impairments are no longer recognized since all changes in fair value are recognized in the Statement of Operations beginning January 1, 2008. (b) Unrealized gains and losses were included in accumulated OCI on Exelons and Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets prior to the January 1, 2008 adoption of the fair value option. Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 40.3%, 33.4% and 40.2%, respectively. During 2008, Generation recorded tax benefits on realized and unrealized losses in its qualified NDT fund investments. The tax benefits on the realized and unrealized losses discussed above were recorded at a higher statutory tax rate than Generations remaining income from operations, resulting in a decreased effective income tax rate. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 91 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Operating revenues $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ (362 ) $ 6,104 $ 32 Purchased power expense 3,065 3,582 517 3,747 165 Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 2,709 2,554 155 2,357 197 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,028 1,097 69 1,091 (6 ) Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 63 28 (35 ) (28 ) Depreciation and amortization 494 464 (30 ) 440 (24 ) Taxes other than income 281 298 17 314 16 Total other operating expenses 1,866 1,887 21 1,845 (42 ) Operating income 843 667 176 512 155 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (319 ) (348 ) 29 (318 ) (30 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (8 ) 8 (7 ) (1 ) Other, net 79 18 61 58 (40 ) Total other income and deductions (240 ) (338 ) 98 (267 ) (71 ) Income before income taxes 603 329 274 245 84 Income taxes 229 128 (101 ) 80 (48 ) Net income $ 374 $ 201 $ 173 $ 165 $ 36 (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in ComEds net income was driven primarily by higher revenue net of purchased power expense, reflecting increased distribution rates effective September 16, 2008, partially offset by a decline in electric deliveries, primarily resulting from unfavorable weather conditions and reduced load in 2009. In addition, ComEds increase in net income reflects lower operating and maintenance expenses, lower interest expense, and higher interest income related to the 2009 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions. The reduction in operating and maintenance expense reflects Exelons company wide cost savings initiative in 2009. The initiative included job reductions, for which ComEd recorded a charge for severance expense as a cost to achieve these savings. ComEd also benefited from decreased storm expenses. Operation and maintenance expense reflect increased pension and other postretirement benefits expense due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. In the September 2008 rate case ruling, the ICC mandated fixed asset disallowances while allowing certain regulatory assets, which were recorded as a net one time charge in 2008. 92 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization expenses increased due to higher plant balances and new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. ComEd experienced a decrease in interest expense primarily due to lower outstanding debt in 2009. ComEd also recorded higher interest income related to the remeasurement in 2009 of uncertain income tax positions. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. ComEds net income for 2008 compared to 2007 reflected higher revenue net of purchased power expense, primarily driven by higher transmission rates effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008 and higher distribution rates effective September 16, 2008. In 2008, ComEd received a refund of Illinois Distribution Tax that also contributed to the increase in net income. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather, higher operating and maintenance expense, principally driven by disallowances arising from the September 2008 rate case order, higher storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense, and higher interest expense. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation services. Details of ComEds retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers in 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following: 2009 2008 Number of customers at period end 53,400 43,100 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % 1 % Volume (GWh) 44,871 46,950 Percentage of total retail deliveries 52 % 51 % The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Distribution pricing $ 214 Energy efficiency and demand response programs 34 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 10 Transmission (26 ) Volume delivery (40 ) Weather delivery (45 ) Other 8 Total increase $ 155 93 Table of Contents Distribution pricing The increase in retail electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of distribution pricing in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, reflected the impact of the 2007 Rate Case. The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in increased distribution revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Energy efficiency and demand response programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008 and are allowed recovery of the costs of these programs from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. In 2009, ComEd recognized $59 million of revenue associated with these programs, compared to $25 million in 2008. These amounts were offset by equal amounts in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs. See Note 2 and Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $8 million and $18 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 Settlement Agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments are recorded as a reduction in revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2009 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Transmission Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense decreased primarily due to a FERC order issued in 2008, which approved incentive recovery treatment of ComEds largest transmission project. The cumulative recognition in 2008 of the 2007 effects of this order resulted in higher revenues in 2008 compared to 2009. This was partially offset by the impact of higher transmission rates effective June 1, 2008 and June 1, 2009, resulting from ComEds FERC approved formula rate. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Volume Delivery The decrease in revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, in 2009 as compared to 2008, reflected decreased average usage per customer and fewer customers in the ComEd service territory. Weather Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were lower in 2009 compared to 2008 due to unfavorable weather conditions. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. In ComEds service territory, heating degree days decreased by 4% and cooling degree days decreased by 29% in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. 94 Table of Contents Other Other revenues were higher in 2009 compared to 2008. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, assistance provided to other utilities through mutual assistance programs and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) 2007 Distribution Rate Case $ 75 Transmission 54 Rate relief program 27 Energy efficiency and demand response programs 25 Wholesale contracts 6 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 5 Volume delivery 2 Weather delivery (38 ) Other 41 Total increase $ 197 2007 Distribution Rate Case The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in a $75 million increase in revenues for 2008 compared to 2007. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Transmission Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense increased primarily due to a FERC order issued in 2008, which approved incentive recovery treatment of ComEds largest transmission project. The cumulative recognition in 2008 of the 2007 effects of this order resulted in higher revenues in 2008 compared to 2007. In addition, transmission rates increased effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008 resulting from ComEds FERC approved formula rate. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Rate relief program ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2008 compared to 2007. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2008 compared to 2007. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Energy efficiency and demand response programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, 95 Table of Contents ComEd recognized $25 million of revenue associated with these programs. This amount was offset by an equal amount of operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Wholesale Contracts ComEds revenues net of purchased power expense include a $6 million increase primarily due to the expiration of certain wholesale contracts in 2007. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $18 million and $23 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments are recorded as a reduction in revenues; therefore, the lower payment resulted in a net increase in revenues for 2008 compared to 2007. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Volume Delivery While ComEds delivery volumes, exclusive of the effects of weather increased slightly compared to 2007 on a full year basis, during the fourth quarter of 2008 ComEd experienced a decrease in volumes. Weather Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. Cooling degree days were 25% lower for 2008 compared to 2007, partially offset by an 11% increase in heating degree days. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense $ 51 Severance 19 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (a) 14 Injuries and damages (1 ) Rate Relief Programs (6 ) Corporate allocations (7 ) Fringe benefits (7 ) Wages and salaries (26 ) Contracting and materials (32 ) 2007 Rate Case disallowances (b) (22 ) Incremental storm related costs (40 ) Other (12 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (69 ) (a) The allowance for uncollectable accounts expense increased in part as a result of the current overall negative economic conditions, partially mitigated by ComEds increased collection activities in 2009. (b) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred expenses. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 96 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) 2007 Rate Case order (a) $ 22 Wages and salaries 15 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (b) 12 Storm related costs 8 Corporate allocations 6 Injuries and damages (9 ) Contracting (23 ) Post rate freeze period transition expenses incurred in 2007 (26 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 6 (a) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred operating and maintenance expenses. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) The allowance for uncollectible accounts expense increased during 2008 due to increased customer account charge offs and the impact of rate relief credits that reduced this expense during 2007. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the period. To fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, ComEd initiated the ICC approved energy efficiency and demand response programs in June 2008. In 2009, expenses related to energy efficiency and demand response programs and purchased power administration costs consisted of $59 million and $4 million, respectively, compared to $25 million and $3 million, respectively, for 2008. See Note 2 and Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 25 (a) $ 19 2007 Rate Case asset disallowances (2 ) 2 Other amortization expense 7 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 30 $ 24 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher plant balances and changes to useful lives of assets based on a depreciation rate study, which became effective January 1, 2009. 97 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Year ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Taxes other than income decreased for 2009 compared to 2008 primarily as a result of $9 million of property tax settlements recorded in 2009. These settlements will result in lower rates prospectively. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Taxes other than income decreased for 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of a $14 million refund of 2005 Illinois distribution tax received in 2008. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Uncertain income tax positions remeasurement (a) $ (6 ) $ Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b) (c) (20 ) 29 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (d) 6 3 Other (e) (9 ) (2 ) (Decrease) increase in interest expense, net $ (29 ) $ 30 (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) In 2008, interest expense included a $7 million charge to reverse previously recognized AFUDC resulting from the January 18, 2008 FERC order granting incentive treatment on ComEds largest transmission project. (c) ComEd Financing II and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were dissolved in 2008. (d) During the first quarter of 2008, ComEd recorded an increase in interest expense of $6 million related to a settlement with the IRS of a research and development claim. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (e) Primarily reflects the decrease in interest for short term borrowings in 2009. Other, Net The changes in Other, net for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions $ 59 (a) $ (36 ) Gain on disposal of assets and investments 5 Other than temporary impairment of investments (7 ) Other 4 (4 ) Increase (decrease) in Other, net $ 61 $ (40 ) (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements for more information. 98 Table of Contents Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was 38.0%, 38.9% and 32.7%, respectively. The benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007 decreased the effective income tax rate for that year. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWh) 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Full service (a) Residential 26,619 28,389 (6.2 )% 29,374 (3.4 )% Small commercial & industrial 13,633 14,937 (8.7 )% 16,468 (9.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,216 1,045 16.4 % 1,949 (46.4 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 421 578 (27.2 )% 766 (24.5 )% Total full service 41,889 44,949 (6.8 )% 48,557 (7.4 )% Delivery only (b) Residential 2 n.m n.m Small commercial & industrial 18,601 18,550 0.3 % 17,380 6.7 % Large commercial & industrial 25,452 27,764 (8.3 )% 27,122 2.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 816 636 28.3 % 518 22.8 % Total delivery only 44,871 46,950 (4.4 )% 45,020 4.3 % Total retail deliveries 86,760 91,899 (5.6 )% 93,577 (1.8 )% (a) Reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity from ComEd. (b) Reflects customers electing to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. n.m. Not meaningful. Electric Revenue 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Full service (a) Residential $ 3,115 $ 3,284 (5.1 )% $ 3,161 3.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,335 1,542 (13.4 )% 1,619 (4.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 73 90 (18.9 )% 154 (41.6 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 44 52 (15.4 )% 67 (22.4 )% Total full service 4,567 4,968 (8.1 )% 5,001 (0.7 )% Delivery only (b) Residential (c) n.m n.m Small commercial & industrial 325 289 12.5 % 261 10.7 % Large commercial & industrial 314 295 6.4 % 276 6.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 13 7 85.7 % 5 40.0 % Total delivery only 652 591 10.3 % 542 9.0 % Total electric retail revenues 5,219 5,559 (6.1 )% 5,543 0.3 % Other revenue (d) 555 577 (3.8 )% 561 2.9 % Total electric and other revenue $ 5,774 $ 6,136 (5.9 )% $ 6,104 0.5 % (a) Reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, which include the cost of electricity and the cost of transmission and distribution of the electricity. 99 Table of Contents (b) Reflects revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. (c) There were a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative electric generation suppliers with total activity of less than $1 million for the years 2009, 2008, 2007. (d) Other revenues primarily include transmission revenues from PJM. Other items also include late payment charges and mutual assistance program revenues. n.m. Not meaningful. Results of Operations PECO 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Operating revenues $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ (256 ) $ 5,613 $ (46 ) Purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,746 3,018 272 2,983 (35 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) and fuel expense 2,565 2,549 16 2,630 (81 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 640 731 91 630 (101 ) Depreciation and amortization 952 854 (98 ) 773 (81 ) Taxes other than income 276 265 (11 ) 280 15 Total other operating expenses 1,868 1,850 (18 ) 1,683 (167 ) Operating income 697 699 (2 ) 947 (248 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (187 ) (226 ) 39 (248 ) 22 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (24 ) (16 ) (8 ) (7 ) (9 ) Other, net 13 18 (5 ) 45 (27 ) Total other income and deductions (198 ) (224 ) 26 (210 ) (14 ) Income before income taxes 499 475 24 737 (262 ) Income taxes 146 150 4 230 80 Net income 353 325 28 507 (182 ) Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 349 $ 321 $ 28 $ 503 $ (182 ) (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in net income was driven primarily by increased operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense and decreased interest expense, which was partially offset by increased operating expenses. The increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was primarily related to increased gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2009, which were partially offset by reduced electric load. 100 Table of Contents PECOs operating expenses increased as a result of increased scheduled CTC amortization expense and pension and other postretirement benefits expense due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. The increased operating expenses were partially offset by decreased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense. PECO also experienced a decrease in gross receipts tax expense primarily due to a rate reduction. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. PECOs net income for 2008 compared to 2007 decreased due to lower operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, reflecting unfavorable weather conditions, as well as higher operating and maintenance expenses primarily driven by an increase in the allowance for uncollectible accounts expense and increased scheduled CTC amortization partially offset by decreased interest expense. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. Gas revenues and fuel expense are affected by fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs PGC. Therefore, fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs have no impact on gas revenue net of fuel expense. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf was $8.80, $11.31 and $10.23 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers are capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement under the Competition Act. Under PECOs full requirements PPA with Generation, purchased power costs are based on the rates charged to customers. Electric revenues and purchased power expense fluctuate in relation to customer class usage as each customer class is charged a different capped electric generation rate; however, there is no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in participation in the Customer Choice Program. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 21,700, 24,800 and 29,200 at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, representing 1%, 2% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. The changes in PECOs electric revenue net of purchased power expense and gas revenue net of fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (24 ) $ 3 $ (21 ) Gas distribution rate increase 77 77 Volume (67 ) (2 ) (69 ) Pricing 22 22 Other 11 (4 ) 7 Total increase (decrease) $ (58 ) $ 74 $ 16 101 Table of Contents Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to the impact of unfavorable 2009 weather conditions in PECOs service territory and gas revenues net of fuel expense were higher due to the impact of unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory in the winter months of 2008. Heating degree days were 3% higher and cooling degree days were 8% lower. Heating degree days and cooling degrees days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Gas distribution rate increase The increase in gas revenues net of fuel expense reflected increased distribution rates effective January 1, 2009 resulting from the settlement of the 2008 gas distribution rate case. Volume The decrease in revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected decreased electric usage per customer across all customer classes as well as decreased gas usage across the small commercial and industrial customer class. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected the impact of lower PECO electric distribution rates in 2008 due to the refund of the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. The rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability related to the 2007 PURTA settlement reflected in taxes other than income. Other The increase in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense reflected an increase in revenues associated with shifts in volume among customer classes, which resulted in a different profile of rates as different customer classes are charged different rates. The changes in PECOs electric revenue net of purchased power expense and gas revenue net of fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (48 ) $ (6 ) $ (54 ) Settlement of PJM billing dispute (10 ) (10 ) Volume 14 14 Pricing (29 ) (29 ) Transmission (11 ) (11 ) Other 10 (1 ) 9 Total increase (decrease) $ (74 ) $ (7 ) $ (81 ) 102 Table of Contents Weather Revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense were lower due to the impact of unfavorable 2008 weather conditions in PECOs service territory. Heating and cooling degree days were 3% and 11% lower, respectively. Settlement of PJM Billing Dispute PECOs purchased power expense increased $10 million due to the impact of the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL during 2007. Volume The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected increased electric usage per customer, primarily in the residential electric customer class and an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes. Pricing The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected lower PECO electric distribution rates in 2008 due to the refund of the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. The rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability related to the 2007 PURTA settlement reflected in taxes other than income. Transmission The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. This revenue is based on the prior years summer peak, and the summer peak in 2007 was lower than in 2006. Transmission expenses increased due to increased allocated costs from PJM. Transmission expenses represent wholesale transmission costs and other costs allocated by PJM, including charges for transmission stabilization, default charges and RTEP costs. Other The increase in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense reflected an increase in revenues associated with volume shifts among customer classes, which resulted in a different profile of rates as different customer classes are charged different rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense The decrease in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ (97 ) Incremental storm related costs (9 ) Materials and supplies (3 ) Pension and OPEB expense 11 Wages and salaries 5 Severance 3 Other (1 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (91 ) 103 Table of Contents The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ 89 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits 4 Contracting 1 Injuries and damages expense (2 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 101 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense The decrease in allowance for uncollectible accounts expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2008 primarily reflects improved accounts receivable aging as a result of enhancements to credit processes and increased collection and termination activities initiated in September 2008 and continuing through 2009. The credit process enhancements and increased collection and termination activities resulted in increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to updated reserve estimates to reflect the anticipated increases in customer account charge offs associated with these activities as well as the further deterioration in actual and projected collections of PECOs higher risk customer accounts receivable. Depreciation and Amortization Expense The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 CTC amortization (a) $ 90 $ 78 Other 8 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 98 $ 81 (a) The increase in PECOs scheduled CTC amortization recorded is in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement under the Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income The increase in taxes other than income for 2009 compared to 2008 and the decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 PURTA amortization (a) $ 34 $ (36 ) Reduction of reserve related to PURTA tax appeal (b) 17 Sales and use tax 3 Taxes on utility revenues (c) (22 ) 2 Other (1 ) (1 ) Increase (decrease) in taxes other than income $ 11 $ (15 ) 104 Table of Contents (a) The increase was due to the impact of amortization of the regulatory liability recorded during 2008 in connection with the 2007 PURTA settlement, which began in January 2008 and was fully amortized in January 2009. The impact of the amortization on operating income in 2008 was offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in the distribution rates to refund the PURTA taxes to customers. (b) On March 27, 2007, PECO prevailed in a Pennsylvania Supreme Court case in which PECO had contested the assessment of PURTA taxes applicable to 1997. As a result, PECO reduced the reserve associated with this matter. (c) The decrease in tax expense for 2009 compared to 2008 was due to a gross receipts tax rate reduction that became effective on January 1, 2009. Interest Expense, Net The decrease in interest expense, net for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in the outstanding debt balance owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Other, Net The decrease in Other, net for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the impact of interest income recorded in 2008 related to the SSCM settlement. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. The decrease in Other, net for 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the impacts of interest income recorded in 2007 related to the SSCM settlement, partially offset by an increase in interest income related to uncertain income tax positions. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 29.3%, 31.6% and 31.2%, respectively. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWh) 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Full service (a) Residential 12,871 13,287 (3.1 )% 13,446 (1.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 8,044 8,211 (2.0 )% 8,288 (0.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 15,832 16,474 (3.9 )% 16,522 (0.3 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 930 909 2.3 % 930 (2.3 )% Total full service 37,677 38,881 (3.1 )% 39,186 (0.8 )% Delivery only (b) Residential 22 30 (26.7 )% 42 (28.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 353 469 (24.7 )% 571 (17.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 16 3 n.m. 14 (78.6 )% Total delivery only 391 502 (22.1 )% 627 (19.9 )% Total retail deliveries 38,068 39,383 (3.3 )% 39,813 (1.1 )% 105 Table of Contents (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. n.m. Not meaningful Electric Revenue 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Full service (a) Residential $ 1,857 $ 1,916 (3.1 )% $ 1,948 (1.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,015 1,028 (1.3 )% 1,042 (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,307 1,406 (7.0 )% 1,386 1.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 90 87 3.4 % 89 (2.2 )% Total full service 4,269 4,437 (3.8 )% 4,465 (0.6 )% Delivery only (b) Residential 2 2 0.0 % 4 (50.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 19 25 (24.0 )% 30 (16.7 )% Total delivery only 21 27 (22.2 )% 34 (20.6 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,290 4,464 (3.9 )% 4,499 (0.8 )% Other revenue (c) 259 282 (8.2 )% 276 2.2 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,549 $ 4,746 (4.2 )% $ 4,775 (0.6 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in mmcf) 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Retail sales 57,103 56,110 1.8 % 58,968 (4.8 )% Transportation 27,206 27,624 (1.5 )% 27,632 (0.0 )% Total 84,309 83,734 0.7 % 86,600 (3.3 )% Revenue 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Retail sales $ 732 $ 795 (7.9 )% $ 784 1.4 % Transportation 21 19 10.5 % 17 11.8 % Resales and other 9 7 28.6 % 37 (81.1 )% Total gas revenue $ 762 $ 821 (7.2 )% $ 838 (2.0 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms 106 Table of Contents depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $957 million, $4.8 billion, $952 million and $574 million, respectively. The Registrants credit facilities largely extend through October 2012 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and February 2011 for ComEd. Exelon, Generation, and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. ComEd uses its credit facilities to provide for short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits The funded status of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations refers to the difference between plan assets and Exelons estimated obligations under the plans. The funded status may change over time due to several factors, including contribution levels, assumed discount rates and actual and assumed rates of return on plan assets. During 2008, the unfunded status of Exelons plans increased significantly, primarily due to lower than expected asset returns. Exelon has continued to monitor financial market conditions and their impact on the plans during 2009. The unfunded balance of the plans decreased to $5.83 billion as of December 31, 2009 as compared to $6.38 billion at December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily a result of a $350 million discretionary pension contribution made during the third quarter, as well as significantly improved asset returns in 2009 compared to 2008. While a decrease in discount rates and other factors resulted in an increase in the pension and other postretirement obligation, it was more than offset by the significant increase in asset values. 107 Table of Contents The calculation of funding requirements for pension plans requires election of a methodology to determine the actuarial value of assets and the interest rate used to measure the pension liabilities. Recent pension funding guidance has modified some of those elections. On December 23, 2008, President Bush signed the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (WRERA), which allows the use of average assets, including expected returns (subject to certain limitations) for a 24 month period prior to the measurement date, in the determination of funding requirements, among other provisions. This option is referred to as asset smoothing. Exelon has elected to utilize asset smoothing for its largest pension plan and market value of assets for its remaining plans. These elections are expected to provide Exelon the opportunity to defer certain contributions to later years and potentially mitigate future contributions through investment market recovery. In March and September 2009, the U.S. Treasury Department provided guidance on the selection of the corporate bond yield curve for determining the interest rate used to calculate plan liabilities and determine pension funding requirements. There are other legislative and regulatory funding relief proposals also being discussed. Exelon is monitoring the progress of these initiatives and evaluating their potential impact on funding requirements and strategies. Management considers various factors when making funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, as amended, and contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions for the pension plans. Regulatory requirements and the amount deductible for income tax purposes are among the factors considered in determining funding for the other postretirement benefit plans. During September 2009, Exelon made a discretionary pension contribution of $350 million to its largest pension plan, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $154 million, $153 million and $17 million, respectively. The contribution, combined with funding elections, is expected to reduce future contribution requirements. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated pension contributions. Tax Matters During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified NDT fund to a qualified NDT fund. As a result of interpretative guidance published by the IRS with respect to this provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008, which resulted in net positive cash flow of approximately $280 million in total for 2008 and 2009 combined. In addition, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The IRS has disallowed the deferral of the gain on this sale. As more fully described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds positions would accelerate income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that becomes currently payable. The ARRA of 2009 was enacted in the first quarter of 2009 and included an extension of the incentive from the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 that allows companies to claim an accelerated depreciation deduction for Federal income tax purposes equal to 50% of the cost basis of certain property placed in service during 2009. Exelon reduced its tax liability by approximately $340 million as a result of this special tax depreciation provision. 108 Table of Contents In 2009, Exelon received approval from the IRS to change its method of accounting for repair costs associated with Generations power plants. The new tax method of accounting resulted in net positive cash flow of approximately $420 million for 2009. Although the IRS granted Exelon approval to change its method of accounting, the approval did not affirm the methodology used to calculate the deduction. Exelon has requested the IRS to review its methodology through its Pre Filing Agreement program. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ending December 31, 2009 and 2008: 2009 2008 Variance Net income $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ (30 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,930 3,400 530 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (588 ) (230 ) (358 ) Income taxes (29 ) (38 ) 9 Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (82 ) (221 ) 139 Option premiums received/(paid), net (40 ) (124 ) 84 Counterparty collateral, net 196 1,027 (831 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 6,094 $ 6,551 $ (457 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, net mark to market gains on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ 6,094 $ 6,551 Generation 3,930 4,445 ComEd 1,020 1,079 PECO 1,166 969 Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Generation During 2009 and 2008, Generation had net collections of counterparty collateral of $195 million and $1,029 million, respectively. Net collections in 2009 and 2008 were primarily due to market conditions that resulted in favorable changes to Generations net mark to market position. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, 109 Table of Contents collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $118 million in 2009 and $274 million 2008. During 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract (decreased) increased by ($58) million and $99 million, respectively. During 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from PECO under the PPA increased by $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During 2009 and 2008, Generation had net payments of approximately $40 million and $124 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to Generation for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract (decreased) increased by $(58) million and $99 million, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases (decreased) increased by $(68) million and $41 million, respectively. PECO During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to Generation under the PPA increased by $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases decreased by $43 million and $12 million, respectively. The 2009 decrease in payables to other energy suppliers is primarily due to an agreement executed in February 2009 between PECO, Generation and PJM that changed the way that PECO and Generation administer their PPA for default service. Cash Flows used in Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ (3,458 ) $ (3,378 ) Generation (2,220 ) (1,967 ) ComEd (821 ) (958 ) PECO (377 ) (377 ) 110 Table of Contents Capital expenditures by Registrant and business segment for 2009 and projected amounts for 2010 are as follows: 2009 2010 Generation (a) $ 1,977 $ 1,975 ComEd 854 935 PECO 388 500 Other (b) 54 30 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 3,273 $ 3,440 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Approximately 43% of the projected 2010 capital expenditures at Generation are for the acquisition of nuclear fuel, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Included in the projected 2010 capital expenditures are a series of planned power uprates across the companys nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 70% and 84% of the projected 2010 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve company operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business, customer growth and AMI and Smart Grid technologies. PECOs projected 2010 capital expenditures do not include estimated costs for transmission system reliability upgrades that could be required by PJM related to Generations announced plant retirements. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. ComEd and PECO are each continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund their capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities for 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ (1,897 ) $ (2,213 ) Generation (1,746 ) (1,470 ) ComEd (155 ) (161 ) PECO (525 ) (587 ) 111 Table of Contents Debt. Debt activity for 2009 and 2008 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuance of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased in February 23, 2009 (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million Senior Notes, 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes, 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due 2011 and to fund Generations September 2009 repurchase of variable rate long term tax exempt debt. The distributions were used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% bonds due 2011. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds (c) ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds (c) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds (a) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes (a) Repurchase due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. 112 Table of Contents Company Issuance of long term debt during the 2008 Use of proceeds ComEd $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038 Used to retire $295 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, to call and refinance $155 million of trust preferred securities and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $700 million of First Mortgage 5.80% Bonds, Series 108, due March 15, 2018 Used to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility, to provide for the retirement at scheduled maturity in May 2008 of $120 million of First Mortgage bonds, Series 83, and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (a)(b) Used to refinance $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (a)(b) Used to refinance $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 (a)(b) Used to refinance a portion of the outstanding tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, 2003 B and 2003 D, due May 15, 2017, November 1, 2019 and January 15, 2014 PECO $150 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 4.00% due December 1, 2012 (c) Used to refinance First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 PECO $500 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.35% due March 1, 2018 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. PECO $300 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.60% Series due October 15, 2013 Used to refinance short term debt (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were issued to refinance variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) During the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a $216 million letter of credit facility, of which $194 million was used to provide credit enhancement to variable rate tax exempt bonds including $3 million of accrued interest. That facility expired on May 9, 2009, and the letters of credit are no longer outstanding. (c) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 113 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 (c) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. (c) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in May 2009. 114 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2008 Exelon Corporate $21 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million scheduled payments of 6.33% notes payable until August 8, 2009 Generation $3 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square Capital Lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $295 million of 3.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99 due February 1, 2008 ComEd $274 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 ComEd $155 million of 8.50% Subordinated Debentures of ComEd Financing II, due January 15, 2027 ComEd $120 million of 8.00% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83 due May 15, 2008 ComEd $100 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2002, due April 15, 2013 (a) ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 (a) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 (a) ComEd $42 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 B, due November 1, 2019 (a) ComEd $40 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, due May 15, 2017 (a) ComEd $20 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 D, due January 15, 2014 (a) ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% Sinking fund debentures due at various dates PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $4 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1,2012 (b) PECO $450 million of 3.5% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due May 1, 2008 PECO $207 million of 6.13% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2008 PECO $369 million of 7.625% PETT Transition Bonds, due March 1, 2009 PECO $33 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 115 Table of Contents From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ 1,385 $ 1,335 Generation 2,276 1,545 ComEd 240 PECO 316 484 On January 26, 2010, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2010 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 16, 2010. Share Repurchases. During 2008, Exelon purchased $500 million of common stock under Exelons accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock. Short Term Borrowings. During 2009, Exelon and PECO repaid $151 million and $95 million of commercial paper, respectively. During 2009, ComEd incurred $95 million of outstanding borrowings under its credit agreement. During 2008, Exelon and PECO repaid $95 million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2008, ComEd repaid $310 million of outstanding borrowings under its credit agreement. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ 709 $ 1,038 ComEd 429 PECO 709 609 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Generation $ 57 $ 86 ComEd 8 14 PECO(a) 347 320 (a) $320 million and $284 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $42 million and $130 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively. Exelons other financing activities during 2009 and 2008 include $5 million and $60 million, respectively, of excess tax benefits, which represent the tax deduction in excess of the tax benefit related to compensation cost recognized for stock options exercised. 116 Table of Contents Credit Matters Recent Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large, diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.3 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.7 billion was available as of December 31, 2009, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation and PECO and 12% for ComEd. Generation also has additional letter of credit facilities that will expire in the second quarter of 2010, which are used to enhance variable rate long term tax exempt debt totaling $213 million. Generation intends to extend or replace the expiring letters of credit with new letters of credit at reasonable terms or remarket the bonds with an interest rate term not requiring letter of credit support. If Generation is unable to remarket these bonds at reasonable terms, Generation will repurchase them. Exelon, Generation and PECO had access to the commercial paper market during 2009 and they were able to fund their short term liquidity needs with commercial paper at favorable rates compared to 2008, when necessary. ComEd utilized its credit facility to fund its short term liquidity needs and provide credit enhancement for $191 million of variable rate tax exempt bonds. Due to an upgrade in ComEds commercial paper rating on July 22, 2009 and improvements in the commercial paper market, ComEd is expected to be able to access the commercial paper market as an additional source of liquidity. However, ComEd did not issue commercial paper in 2009 due to more favorable rates on credit facility draws. The Registrants routinely review the sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flow from operations, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $880 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion. The $880 million includes $673 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payable and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $207 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $207 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $546 million. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, it would have been required to provide collateral of $5 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $49 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of $564 million. Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper. Generation and PECO meet their short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from the intercompany money pool, and ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through borrowings under its credit facility. While short term borrowing costs have not been significant to date, further uncertainty in the credit markets may result in increased costs for commercial paper borrowings. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets 117 Table of Contents could limit the ability of the Registrants to issue commercial paper, which may increase their reliance on their respective revolving credit agreements for short term liquidity purposes. The Registrants may use their respective credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including meeting short term funding requirements and the issuance of letters of credit. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants credit facilities. ComEds $952 million credit facility agreement expires on February 16, 2011. ComEd expects to extend or replace that facility during 2010 and intends to increase the available commitments to total $1 billion. On October 23, 2009, Exelon entered into new credit facility agreements totaling $67 million with minority and community banks located primarily within its service territory. The credit agreements were for Generation, ComEd and PECO in the amounts of $7 million, $30 million and $30 million, respectively. These agreements are solely utilized for issuing letters of credit. As of December 31, 2009, Generation, ComEd and PECO had issued letters of credit under these agreements totaling $5 million, $24 million and $29 million, respectively. The following table reflects the Registrants commercial paper programs and revolving credit agreements at December 31, 2009. Commercial Paper Programs Commercial Paper Issuer Maximum Program Size (a) OutstandingCommercial Paper atDecember 31, 2009 Average Interest Rate onCommercial PaperBorrowings for thetwelve months endedDecember 31, 2009 Exelon Corporate $ 957 $ 0.72 % Generation 4,834 ComEd (b) 952 PECO 574 0.67 % Total $ 7,317 $ 0.71 % (a) Equals aggregate bank commitments under revolving credit agreements. (b) Prior to July 22, 2009, ComEd was unable to access the commercial paper market given the market environment. On July 22, 2009, ComEds commercial paper rating was upgraded giving it limited access to the commercial paper market. However, ComEd did not issue commercial paper due to more favorable rates on credit facility draws. In order to maintain their respective commercial paper programs in the amounts indicated above, each Registrant must have revolving credit facilities in place at least equal to the amount of its commercial paper program. While the amount of its commercial paper outstanding does not reduce available capacity under a Registrants credit agreement, a Registrant can not issue commercial paper in an aggregate amount exceeding the available capacity under its credit agreement. Revolving CreditAgreements Borrower Aggregate BankCommitment (a) OutstandingBorrowings/FacilityDraws OutstandingLetters ofCredit Available Capacity underRevolving CreditAgreements as ofDecember 31, 2009 Average Interest Rateon Borrowings fortwelve months endedDecember 31, 2009 Exelon Corporate $ 957 $ $ 5 $ 952 Generation 4,834 167 4,667 ComEd 952 155 251 546 0.79 % PECO 574 10 564 Total $ 7,317 $ 155 $ 433 $ 6,729 0.79 % 118 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $67 million of credit facility agreements arranged with minority and community banks in October 2009 which are solely utilized to issue letters of credit and expire on October 23, 2010. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the LIBOR plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 162.5 basis points. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The interest coverage ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and interest on nonrecourse debt. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2009, the interest coverage ratios at the Registrants were as follows: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Interest coverage ratio 13.97 35.65 5.52 5.65 An event of default under any Registrants credit facility will not constitute an event of default under any of the other Registrants credit facilities, except that a bankruptcy or other event of default in the payment of principal, premium or interest on any indebtedness having a principal amount in excess of $100 million in the aggregate by Generation (including Generations credit facility) will constitute an event of default under the Exelon credit facility. Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets may depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. Listed below are the Registrants securities ratings as of December 31, 2009. Securities Moodys S&P Fitch Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Baa3 BBB BBB Senior secured debt Baa1 A BBB Commercial paper P3 A2 B PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Transition bonds(a) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. 119 Table of Contents None of the Registrants borrowings are subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading of a Registrants securities could increase fees and interest charges under that Registrants credit agreements. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. On July 21, 2009, following Exelons termination of efforts to acquire NRG, Fitch affirmed Exelons and Generations current ratings and removed both Registrants from Ratings Watch Negative. Both Registrants were assigned a Stable ratings outlook. On July 22, 2009, S&P affirmed the ratings for Exelon, Generation and PECO and removed each Registrant from CreditWatch Negative. S&P also raised ComEds corporate credit rating to BBB from BBB , its senior secured rating to A from BBB+, its senior unsecured rating to BBB from BBB , and its short term rating to A2 from A3. S&P also removed ComEds ratings from CreditWatch Negative. The outlook for all ratings is Stable. On July 23, 2009, Moodys confirmed Exelons and Generations current ratings and PECOs long term debt rating. The outlook for Exelons and Generations debt rating is Stable. PECOs long term debt rating was placed on Negative outlook and its short term rating was downgraded to P2 from P1. On August 3, 2009, Moodys changed its methodology widening the notching between most senior secured debt ratings and senior unsecured debt ratings of investment grade regulated utilities. As a result, ComEds senior secured ratings increased to Baa1 from Baa2. On January 25, 2010, Fitch upgraded ComEds senior secured debt ratings to BBB+ from BBB and its senior unsecured debt ratings to BBB from BBB . ComEds commercial paper rating increased to F3 from B. Fitch also affirmed the ratings of Exelon, Generation and PECO and their ratings outlook as Stable. Fitch cited ComEds financial improvement over the past year and a more settled regulatory and legislative environment in Illinois as contributing factors for the upgrade. As part of the normal course of business, the Registrants enter into contracts that contain express provisions or otherwise permit the Registrants and their counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contract law, if the Registrants are downgraded by a credit rating agency, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance, which could include the posting of collateral. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on collateral provisions. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure At December 31, 2009, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 46 % 35 % 39 % 40 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 3 2 11 Common equity 50 58 47 Members equity 65 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 1 (a) As of December 31, 2009, PECOs capital structure, excluding the impacts of the deduction from shareholders equity of the $180 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table above) would consist of 48% common equity, 2% preferred securities and 50% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. 120 Table of Contents (b) Includes approximately $805 million, $206 million and $599 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing transition bonds to securitize intangible transition property consisting of CTCs of PECO or mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2009 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2009: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2009Contributed(Borrowed) Generation $ 138 $ $ PECO 106 BSC 140 (15 ) Exelon Corporate 103 N/A 15 Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2009, the Registrants each had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2009, ComEd had $389 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $399 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2009, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2009, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2011 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 121 Table of Contents Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2009, Exelon had retained earnings of $8,134 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,169 million, ComEds retained earnings of $304 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $1,943 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $426 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owned interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that owned synthetic fuel producing facilities. Prior to December 31, 2007, Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the IRC provided tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. The ability to earn these synthetic fuel tax credits expired on December 31, 2007 and, as such, the synthetic fuel producing facilities that Exelon had interests in ceased operations on or before December 31, 2007. In March 2008, the IRS published the 2007 Oil Reference Price which resulted in a 67% phase out of tax credits for calendar year 2007 that reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $258 million to $85 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Exelon generated approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments. As a result of the phase out of tax credits in 2008 and the timing of the realization of tax benefits earned in prior years, Exelon collected approximately $200 million of cash in 2008, which includes $44 million collected in the first quarter of 2008 related to the settlement of derivatives that were entered into in the normal course of trading operations in 2005 to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits. 122 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2015and beyond AllOther 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Long term debt (a) $ 12,428 $ 1,052 $ 1,422 $ 1,319 $ 8,635 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,457 666 1,195 1,019 5,577 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 372 1 371 Capital leases 38 2 5 6 25 Operating leases 713 67 130 111 405 Purchase power obligations (d) 2,433 396 636 296 1,105 Fuel purchase agreements 10,679 1,237 2,335 2,073 5,034 Other purchase obligations (e) 1,128 570 399 148 11 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (f) 18 6 12 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,017 1,017 Pension minimum funding requirement (g) 3,596 243 894 1,658 801 Other postretirement benefits minimum funding requirement (h) 228 48 93 87 Total contractual obligations $ 41,107 $ 4,288 $ 7,121 $ 6,717 $ 22,610 $ 371 (a) Includes $415 million and $390 million due in 2010 and thereafter, respectively, to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2009 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2009. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2009, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $371 million and $0 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2009. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (f) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (g) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as well as discretionary contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2015 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may choose to make additional discretionary contributions. (h) These amounts represent estimated minimum other postretirement benefit contributions required under a PAPUC rate order. These minimum contributions represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2014 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary. 123 Table of Contents Exelons commitments as of December 31, 2009, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 297 $ 289 $ 8 $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 14 11 3 Surety bonds (c) 76 7 69 Performance guarantees (d) 96 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (e) 218 193 25 Nuclear insurance premiums (f) 2,204 2,204 Lease guarantees (g) 125 15 110 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (h) 6 3 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (i) 10 4 6 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (j) 25 25 Construction commitments (k) 196 51 68 77 Total commitments $ 3,267 $ 583 $ 113 $ 187 $ 2,384 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2009, guarantees of $9 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amounts of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $213 million at Generation and $191 million at ComEd are reflected in long term debt in Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (d) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts with unaffiliated third parties. (e) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (f) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act as well as the current aggregate annual retrospective premium obligation that could be imposed by NEIL. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on Generations nuclear insurance premiums. (g) Lease guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure payments on building leases. (h) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $8 million, $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the 2007 City of Chicago Settlement. (i) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. (j) See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (k) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds and PECOs construction commitments. 124 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment due within Due 2015and beyond AllOther 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Long term debt $ 2,959 $ 24 $ $ 500 $ 2,435 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,515 161 321 295 1,738 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (b) 117 1 116 Capital leases 38 2 5 6 25 Operating leases 425 27 52 48 298 Purchase power obligations (c) 2,433 396 636 296 1,105 Fuel purchase agreements 10,105 1,085 2,162 1,950 4,908 Other purchase obligations (d) 636 263 257 105 11 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,017 1,017 Total contractual obligations $ 20,245 $ 1,959 $ 3,433 $ 3,200 $ 11,537 $ 116 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2009 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2009. (b) As of December 31, 2009, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $100 million and $17 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2009. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. Generations commitments as of December 31, 2009, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a)(b) $ 172 $ 172 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (c) 11 11 Surety bonds (d) 3 3 Performance guarantees (e) 96 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (f) 218 193 25 Nuclear insurance premiums (g) 2,204 2,204 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (h) 24 24 Total commitments $ 2,728 $ 400 $ 25 $ 95 $ 2,208 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. Guarantees of $8 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) The amount includes letters of credit that are posted to ComEd related to the Illinois procurement auction. (c) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $213 million is reflected in long term debt in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. 125 Table of Contents (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts with unaffiliated third parties. (f) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act as well as the current aggregate annual retrospective premium obligation that could be imposed by NEIL. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on Generations nuclear insurance premiums. (h) See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations rate relief commitments. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, had a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas were indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England had guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under the authoritative guidance for guarantees, approximately $13 million was included as a liability within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. In April 2008, Distrigas, Exelon New England and Mystic entered into agreements that terminated the guarantee, which resulted in Generations elimination of the guarantee liability and the recognition of $13 million of income. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. During 2008, the value of the NDT funds declined significantly due to unrealized losses as a result of adverse financial market conditions. Despite this decline in value, Generation believes that the NDT funds for the nuclear generating stations formerly owned by ComEd, PECO and AmerGen, the expected earnings thereon and, in the case of the former PECO stations, the amounts collected from PECOs customers will ultimately be sufficient to fully fund Generations decommissioning obligations for its nuclear generating stations in accordance with NRC regulations. However, NRC minimum funding requirements may require Generation to take steps to address the funded status of the NDT funds. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels. Depending on the value of the NDT funds, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or make additional contributions to the NDT funds, which could be significant, to ensure that the NDTs are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of matters regarding the adequacy of Generations NDT funds to meet its decommissioning obligations, the obligations imposed on Generation related to the potential excess or shortfall of NDT funds, the impact on Generations accounting for its former ComEd units as a result of a shortfall of NDT funds and other matters related to Generations NDT funds and decommissioning obligations. 126 Table of Contents ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2015and beyond AllOther 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Long term debt (a) $ 4,944 $ 213 $ 797 $ 269 $ 3,665 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,473 280 506 423 2,264 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 279 279 Operating leases 95 17 32 26 20 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 18 6 12 Electric supply procurement 645 615 30 REC purchase commitments 8 8 Other purchase obligations (e) 115 99 16 Total contractual obligations $ 9,577 $ 1,238 $ 1,393 $ 718 $ 5,949 $ 279 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2015 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2009 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2009. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2009, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $251 million and $28 million, respectively. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. ComEds commitments as of December 31, 2009, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 80 $ 80 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 3 3 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (c) 6 3 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (d) 10 4 6 Surety bonds (e) 2 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (f) 1 1 Construction commitments (g) 91 16 23 52 Total commitments $ 193 $ 106 $ 35 $ 52 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $191 million is reflected in long term debt in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $8 million, $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 127 Table of Contents (d) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. (e) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (f) See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds rate relief commitments. (g) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds construction commitments. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2015and beyond AllOther 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Long term debt (a) $ 2,824 $ 415 $ 625 $ 550 $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,549 154 243 176 976 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 1 1 Operating leases 73 15 30 27 1 Fuel purchase agreements (d) 574 152 173 123 126 Electric supply procurement 938 888 50 AEC purchase commitments 37 9 19 9 Other purchase obligations (e) 233 149 52 32 Total contractual obligations $ 6,229 $ 894 $ 2,030 $ 967 $ 2,337 $ 1 (a) Includes $415 million and $184 million due in 2010, and thereafter, respectively, to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2009 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Includes estimated interest payments due to PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2009, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $1 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECOs commitments as of December 31, 2009, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 39 $ 32 $ 7 $ $ Surety bonds (b) 3 3 Construction commitments (c) 105 35 45 25 Total commitments $ 147 $ 70 $ 52 $ 25 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) PECO maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (c) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on PECOs construction commitments. 128 Table of Contents For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 11 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Variable Interest Entities Generation. Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generating capacity, and long , intermediate and short term contracts. Generation also has contracts to purchase fuel supplies for nuclear and fossil generation. These contracts and Generations membership in NEIL are not consolidated in Exelons and Generations financial statements pursuant to the provisions of the authoritative guidance for VIEs. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. The financing trust of ComEd, ComEd Financing III, and the financing trusts of PECO, namely PECO Trust III, PECO Trust IV and PETT, are not consolidated in Exelons, ComEds and PECOs financial statements. Amounts of $206 million and $599 million, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to financing trusts and PETT within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it sold an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as 129 Table of Contents a sale as of December 31, 2009. Under authoritative guidance effective January 1, 2010, this agreement will be accounted for as a secured borrowing. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for the sold receivables and has recorded a servicing liability. The agreement terminates on September 16, 2010 unless extended in accordance with its terms. As of December 31, 2009, PECO was in compliance with the requirements of the agreement. In the event the agreement is not extended, PECO has sufficient short term liquidity and will seek alternate financing. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the servicing liability. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. In November 2008, the SEC issued a roadmap for the potential use of IFRS in the U.S. IFRS is a set of accounting standards developed by the International Accounting Standards Board, whose mission is to develop a single set of global financial reporting standards for general purpose financial statements. The roadmap indicates that the SEC will reconvene in 2011 to evaluate progress towards certain identified milestones and decide whether a mandatory IFRS conversion should be required for all U.S. issuers beginning with large accelerated filers in 2014. Further guidance from the SEC is expected in 2010. Exelon is currently evaluating the potential impact IFRS may have on its financial statements. 130 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Within Exelon, Generation has the most exposure to commodity price risk. PECO has transferred substantially all of its near term electricity commodity price risk to Generation through a PPA that expires at the end of 2010. PECOs commodity price risk following the expiration of its generation rate caps and the PPA is addressed by its DSP Program, which allows for full cost recovery. As a mechanism to reduce commodity price risk relating to natural gas, PECO has implemented a natural gas procurement policy that is designed to achieve a reasonable balance of long term and short term gas purchases under different pricing approaches in order to achieve system supply reliability at the least cost. PECOs actual costs of natural gas are recovered from customers through the PAPUCs PGC, which allows PECO to adjust rates quarterly to reflect realized natural gas prices. ComEd has transferred most of its near term commodity price risk to generating companies through the ICC approved procurement processes and a significant portion of its longer term commodity price risk to Generation through the five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. The Illinois Settlement Legislation provides for the pass through of procurement costs by ComEd to its customers. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under derivative accounting guidance. Economic hedges may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Economic hedges that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in results of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case, changes in fair value are recorded in OCI and gains and losses are recognized in results of operations when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria or are not designated as such are recognized in current results of operations. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges will occur during 2010 through 2012 and the ComEd financial swap contract during 2010 through 2013. 131 Table of Contents The economic hedge activity resulted in a net mark to market energy contract asset position, excluding the rights of offset for derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements and the application of collateral, of $2,691 million at December 31, 2009, comprised of a net energy contract asset for cash flow hedges of $1,912 million and a net energy contract asset for other derivatives of $779 million. The net mark to market asset position for the portfolio at December 31, 2009 is a result of forward market prices decreasing relative to the contracted price of the derivative instruments, the majority of which are hedges of future power sales. Activity associated with the cash flow hedges is recognized through accumulated OCI until the period in which the associated physical sale of power occurs. At that time, the cash flow hedges mark to market position is reversed and reclassified as results of operations, which when combined with the impacts of the actual physical power sale, results in the ultimate recognition of net revenues at the contracted price. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2009, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 91% 94%, 69% 72%, and 37% 40% for 2010, 2011, and 2012, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2009 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $40 million, $285 million and $497 million, respectively, for 2010, 2011, and 2012. Power price sensitivities are derived by adjusting the power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. The proprietary trading activities included volumes of 7,578 GWh, 8,891 GWh, and 20,323 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2009 resulted in pre tax gains of $1 million due to net mark to market losses of $83 million and realized gains of $84 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period and one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $120,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $6,771 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the 132 Table of Contents following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and VaR limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction and the RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO Generation and PECO have entered into a long term full requirements PPA under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The PPA is not considered a derivative. Pursuant to the PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply in 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011. PECO has entered into block contracts and full requirements fixed price contracts to procure electric supply for its residential, small commercial and medium commercial procurement classes. The full requirements fixed price contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales scope exception. PECO records the fair value of the block contracts on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, since these block contracts were executed in accordance with the PAPUC approved DSP Program and PECO will receive full cost recovery in rates, PECO did not elect hedge accounting and the fair value of the contracts is recorded by PECO as a regulatory asset or liability. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. All of PECOs natural gas supply and management agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). 133 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchases and normal sales contracts. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (e) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2008 (a) (g) $ (564 ) $ 456 $ $ $ (108 ) Total change in fair value during 2008 of contracts recorded in result of operations 602 602 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (131 ) (131 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income 44 44 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (b) 544 (24 ) 520 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c)(f) 1,784 (888 ) 896 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (d) (912 ) 912 Changes in collateral (1,024 ) (1,024 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) (g) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (h) (5 ) (5 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications (11 ) (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2008 (a)(g) $ 1,363 $ (456 ) $ $ $ 907 Total change in fair value during 2009 of contracts recorded in result of operations 137 137 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (24 ) (24 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (15 ) (15 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (b) (1,559 ) 267 (1,292 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c)(f) 2,052 (784 ) 1,268 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (d) (515 ) (4 ) 517 (2 ) Changes in collateral (194 ) (194 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) (g) 40 40 Other income statement reclassifications (h) (46 ) (46 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications 15 15 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2009 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, includes $267 million loss and $24 million gain of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income related to the settlement of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 134 Table of Contents (c) For Generation, includes $782 million and $888 million gain of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $2 million gain of changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2009. (d) For ComEd, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $971 million and $456 million, respectively, related to the mark to market derivative liability on the financial swap with Generation. During 2009 and 2008 this includes $782 million and $888 million of changes in fair value, respectively, and $267 million of gains and $24 million of losses, respectively, of reclassifications from regulatory asset to purchased power expense due to settlements. For PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded in a regulatory asset or liability. As of December 31, 2009, PECO recorded a $4 million regulatory asset related to the fair value of its mark to market derivative liability for its block contracts, which includes $2 million related to PECOs block contracts with Generation. (e) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. Amounts related to the block contracts between Generation and PECO are also eliminated in consolidation. (f) For Generation, includes $15 million and $44 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. (g) Exelon and Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. (h) Includes $46 million and $5 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following tables detail the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 Generation (a)(b) ComEd (a) PECO (a) IntercompanyEliminations (c) Exelon Current assets $ 678 $ $ $ (302 ) $ 376 Noncurrent assets 1,310 (671 ) 639 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,988 (973 ) 1,015 Current liabilities (198 ) (302 ) 302 (198 ) Noncurrent liabilities (21 ) (669 ) (4 ) 671 (23 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (219 ) (971 ) (4 ) 973 (221 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 (a) Includes current and noncurrent assets for Generation and current and noncurrent liabilities for ComEd of $302 million and $669 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. Includes a noncurrent asset for Generation and a noncurrent liability for PECO of $2 million related to the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. (b) Current and noncurrent assets are shown net of collateral of $502 million and $376 million, respectively, and current liabilities are shown net of collateral of $69 million. The allocation of collateral had no impact to noncurrent liabilities. The total cash collateral received net of cash collateral posted and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities was $947 million at December 31, 2009. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. 135 Table of Contents December 31, 2008 Generation (a)(b)(d) ComEd (a) IntercompanyElimination (c) Exelon (d) Current assets $ 591 $ $ (111 ) $ 480 Noncurrent assets 1,007 (345 ) 662 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,598 (456 ) 1,142 Current liabilities (212 ) (111 ) 111 (212 ) Noncurrent liabilities (23 ) (345 ) 345 (23 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (235 ) (456 ) 456 (235 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 1,363 $ (456 ) $ $ 907 (a) Includes current and noncurrent asset for Generation and current and noncurrent liability for ComEd of $111 million and $345 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. (b) Current and noncurrent assets are shown net of collateral of $355 million and $333 million, respectively, and current liabilities are shown net of collateral of $65 million. The allocation of collateral had no impact to noncurrent liabilities. The total cash collateral received net of cash collateral posted and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities was $753 million at December 31, 2008. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. (d) Exelon and Generation reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform with current year presentation. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Fair Values The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask, mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the contracts, which are primarily option contracts, represents contracts for which external valuations are not available. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2009 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation, ComEd and PECO hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from the swap between Generation and ComEd, energy marketing, trading activities and such variations could be material. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding valuation. The following tables, which present maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market asset or (liability). Second, the tables provide the maturity, by year, of the Registrants net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. 136 Table of Contents Exelon Maturities Within Total FairValue 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 379 $ 225 $ 59 $ 4 $ 1 $ $ 668 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (2 ) (1 ) (5 ) (8 ) Total $ 379 $ 223 $ 58 $ (1 ) $ 1 $ $ 660 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by external sources (172 ) 272 74 174 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (25 ) (4 ) (7 ) (36 ) Total $ (201 ) $ 268 $ 67 $ $ $ $ 134 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $947 million at December 31, 2009. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 379 $ 225 $ 59 $ 4 $ 1 $ $ 668 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 302 313 271 81 967 Total $ 681 $ 538 $ 330 $ 85 $ 1 $ $ 1,635 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c) : Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by external sources (172 ) 272 74 174 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (25 ) (4 ) (7 ) (36 ) Total $ (201 ) $ 268 $ 67 $ $ $ $ 134 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Includes $971 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd and $2 million related to the fair value of the PECO block contracts. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $947 million at December 31, 2009. 137 Table of Contents ComEd Maturities Within 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andBeyond Total Fair Value Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ 302 $ 311 $ 272 $ 86 $ $ $ 971 (a) Represents ComEds net liabilities associated with the five year financial swap with Generation. PECO Maturities Within 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andBeyond Total Fair Value Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 4 (a) Represents PECOs net liabilities associated with its block contracts executed under its DSP Program. Includes $2 million related to the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. Cash Flow Hedges The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2009. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of the hedges Generation has in place; however, since not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a rollforward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity,Net of Income Tax Generation Exelon Income StatementLocation Energy RelatedHedges TotalCash FlowHedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2008 $ (548) (a) $ (292 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value 1,101 (b) 567 Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income Operating Revenue 328 (c) 314 Ineffective portion recognized in income Purchased Power (26) (26 ) Accumulated OCI derivative gain at December 31, 2008 $ 855 (a) $ 563 Effective portion of changes in fair value 1,227 (b) 757 Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income Operating Revenue (939) (c) (778 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income Purchased Power 9 9 Accumulated OCI derivative gain at December 31, 2009 $ 1,152 (a),(d) $ 551 (a) Includes $585 million gain, $275 million gain and $275 million loss, net of taxes, related to the fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, and $1 million of gains, net of taxes, related to the fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2009. 138 Table of Contents (b) Includes $471 million and $535 million gains, net of taxes, of the effective portion of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $1 million of gain, net of taxes, of the effective portion of changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2009. (c) Includes $161 million loss and $15 million gain, net of taxes, of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income related to the settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (d) Excludes $5 million gain, net of taxes, related to interest rate swaps settled for the year ended December 31, 2009. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren electricity supply auctions. Beginning in 2007 and as a result of the auctions, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Generation participated in the 2008 ComEd RFP procurement process and will continue to have credit risk in connection with contracts for sale of electricity resulting from the ICC approved competitive procurement process. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Therefore, Generations credit risk profile has changed based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. For additional information on the Illinois auction and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation enters into enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with its counterparties, which reduces Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. Typically, each enabling agreement is for a specific commodity and so, with respect to each individual counterparty, netting is limited to transactions involving that specific commodity product, except where master netting agreements exist with a counterparty that allows for cross product netting. In addition to payment netting language in the enabling agreement, the credit department establishes margining thresholds and collateral requirements for each counterparty, which are defined in each contract. Counterparty credit limits are based on an internal credit review that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. To the extent that a counterpartys margining thresholds are exceeded, the counterparty is required to post collateral with Generation as specified in each enabling agreement. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. See the Collateral section below for additional information. 139 Table of Contents The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2009. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $123 million and $174 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2009 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,183 $ 464 $ 719 1 $ 76 Non investment grade 15 5 10 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 34 5 29 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,233 $ 475 $ 758 1 $ 76 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2009 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,071 $ 112 $ $ 1,183 Non investment grade 15 15 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 22 12 34 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,109 $ 124 $ $ 1,233 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As of December 31, 2009 Financial institutions $ 259 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 431 Other 68 Total $ 758 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually 140 Table of Contents through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on the price of energy in the spot market compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the future prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of contract execution. If the price of energy in the spot market exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2009, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial and did not exceed the unsecured levels allowed by contract. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, primarily based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2009. PECO has a PPA with Generation under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources at prices that are currently below current market prices. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues earned from customers as specified by PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. As noted under Item 1A. Risk Factors, PECO could be negatively affected if Generation could not perform under the PPA. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from S&P, Fitch or Moodys and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. If the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2009, PECOs credit exposure to suppliers under its electric procurement contracts was 141 Table of Contents immaterial and did not exceed unsecured levels allowed by the supplier master agreements. As of December 31, 2009, PECO had no net credit exposure to energy suppliers. PECO does not obtain collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and management agreements. As of December 31, 2009, PECO had credit exposure of $13 million under its natural gas supply and management contracts. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Exelon depends on access to bank credit lines which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. Since the banking industry issues started to surface in mid 2007, credit markets have tightened. Exelon will be required to renew most of its credit facilities in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cost and availability to renew may be substantially different than when Exelon originally negotiated the existing liquidity facilities. As of December 31, 2009, Generation was holding $965 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $12 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $947 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, $6 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, Generation was holding $758 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties, of which $753 million was offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, $5 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. 142 Table of Contents ComEd Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the SFCs that Generation and other suppliers entered into with ComEd, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation and the other suppliers only. Therefore, if market prices fall below ComEds benchmark price levels, ComEd is not required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above the benchmark price levels with ComEd, Generation and the other suppliers may be required to post collateral once certain unsecured credit limits are exceeded. Under the terms of the 5 year financial swap contract with ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, the swap contract also provides that: (1) if ComEd is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys or S&P, or (2) if Generation is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys or S&P, collateral postings would be required by the applicable party depending on how market prices compare to the benchmark price levels. Under the terms of the financial swap contract, collateral postings will never exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation. As of December 31, 2009, there was no cash collateral or letters of credit posted between any suppliers, including Generation, and ComEd associated with the SFCs. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Beginning in June 2009, under the terms of ComEds standard block energy contracts, collateral postings are only required from the supplier, including Generation, should exposures between market prices and benchmark prices exceed unsecured credit limits outlined in the agreement. The terms of ComEds procurement contracts provide that collateral requirements of the suppliers are affected by their security ratings. As stipulated in the Illinois Settlement Legislation as well as the ICC approved procurement tariff, ComEd is permitted to recover its costs of procuring power and energy plus any prudent costs that a utility incurs in arranging and providing for the supply of electric power and energy. Thus all costs associated with collateral postings are recoverable from retail customers through ComEds procurement tariff. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, it would have been required to provide collateral of $5 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP program contracts do not contain provisions that would require PECO to post collateral. PECOs natural gas procurement contracts contain provisions that require PECO to post collateral. This collateral may be posted in the form of cash or credit support with thresholds contingent upon PECOs credit rating from Moodys and S&P. The collateral and credit support requirements vary by contract and by counterparty. As of December 31, 2009, PECO was not required to post any additional collateral for any of these agreements. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, PECO could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $49 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of $564 million. RTOs and ISOs. Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the ERCOT. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies 143 Table of Contents that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions. Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse acts as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. Generation and PECO Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 56% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2010 through 2014 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. PECO procures natural gas from suppliers under both short term and long term contracts. PECOs natural gas procurement plan is reviewed and approved annually on a prospective basis by the PAPUC. PECOs counterparty credit risk under its natural gas supply agreements is mitigated by its ability to recover its natural gas costs through the PAPUC PGC that allows PECO to adjust rates quarterly to reflect realized natural gas prices. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2009, included a $602 million net investment in direct financing leases. The investment in direct financing leases represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $890 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options, Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to return the leasehold interests or to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. If Exelon chooses the service contract option, the leasehold interests will be returned to Exelon at the end of the term of the service contract. In any event, Exelon will be subject to residual value risk if the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. During 2008 and 2009, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. 144 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2009, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2009, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $412 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 145 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 146 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 147 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2009, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $952 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2009, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 150 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 151 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Exelon General Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through the following principal subsidiaries each of which is treated as an operating segment: Generation, whose business consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. ComEd, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. PECO, whose business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for segment information. Through its business services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable business segments. Additionally, the results of Exelons corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities. Exelon Corporation Executive Overview Financial Results. Exelons net income was $2,707 million in 2009 as compared to $2,737 million in 2008, and diluted earnings per average common share were $4.09 in 2009 as compared to $4.13 in 2008. All amounts presented below are before the impact of income tax. Exelons 2009 results were significantly affected by lower revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense at Generation of $411 million. This decrease was primarily due to reduced net mark to market gains from its hedging activities of $271 million and unfavorable portfolio and market conditions of $206 million. Additionally, Generation experienced higher nuclear fuel costs of $74 million. Partially offsetting these decreases were lower costs associated with the Illinois Settlement of $123 million. ComEd experienced higher revenue net of purchased power expense of $155 million despite unfavorable weather conditions and reduced load. Distribution pricing increased ComEds operating revenues by $214 million primarily due to the ICCs September 2008 order in the 2007 distribution rate case. This increase was partially offset by the impact of current economic conditions and unfavorable weather, which reduced ComEds load resulting in lower revenue net of purchased power expense of $40 million and $45 million, respectively. PECO had a slight increase of $16 million in its revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense primarily due to increased gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2009 resulting from the settlement of 2008 rate case, which provided $77 million of additional revenues in 2009. PECOs increased revenues also reflected the impact of lower electric distribution rates in 2008 of $22 million primarily due 63 Table of Contents to the refund of the 2007 PURTA settlement (which was completely offset in charges recorded in taxes other than income). Similar to ComEd, these increases were partially offset by the impact of current economic conditions and unfavorable weather, which reduced PECOs load resulting in lower revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense of $69 million and $21 million, respectively. Exelons 2009 results were also affected by higher operating and maintenance expense at Generation. In March 2009, Generation re evaluated the fair value of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations due to the continued decline in forward energy prices, which resulted in a $223 million impairment charge. In December 2009, Generation announced that it had notified PJM of its intention to permanently retire four fossil fired generation units in Pennsylvania because they are no longer economic to operate and are not required to meet demand for electricity in the region. In connection with the announced retirements, Generation recorded a charge of $24 million related to exit costs as well as $32 million of accelerated depreciation. Additionally, Exelons pension and other postretirement benefits expense increased by $160 million in 2009 due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. There was also a scheduled increase in CTC amortization expense at PECO of $90 million in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement and increased depreciation of $69 million across the Registrants due to ongoing capital expenditures. In response to current market and economic conditions, Exelon implemented a cost savings program in 2009. This initiative included job reductions, for which Exelon recorded a $34 million charge related to severance expenses, and a $350 million discretionary contribution to Exelons largest pension fund, which is expected to reduce pension expense over the next ten years. PECO generated additional cost savings through enhancements to credit processes and increased collection and termination activities initiated in 2008, which reduced the allowance for uncollectible accounts expense by $97 million. In addition, ComEds and PECOs incremental storm related costs decreased by $40 million and $9 million, respectively. Exelons interest expense decreased by $140 million primarily due to lower outstanding debt at ComEd and PECO and lower interest rates on Generations SNF obligation. Additionally, Exelon was able to capitalize on favorable capital market conditions in its refinancing of $1.2 billion of debt at Exelon and Generation originally scheduled to mature in 2011. Although this debt offering resulted in $120 million in debt extinguishment costs, it decreased Exelons average cost of debt while also extending the maturities of the debt. Exelons 2009 results were also significantly affected by NDT realized and unrealized gains of $256 million in 2009 compared to realized and unrealized losses of $308 million in 2008 for the former AmerGen nuclear generating units and portions of the Peach Bottom nuclear generating units (Non Regulatory Agreement Units) as a result of improved market performance. Finally, Exelon reassessed anticipated apportionment of its income, resulting in a change in state deferred income tax rates, and ComEd remeasured income tax uncertainties related to its 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. These two actions resulted in an aggregate non cash gain of $83 million. For further detail regarding 2009 Financial Results, including explanation of non GAAP measures, see the discussions of Results of Operations by Segment below. 64 Table of Contents Outlook for 2010 and Beyond. Economic and Market Conditions Although financial markets have been relatively stable since last summer, manufacturing has remained weak and unemployment rates are still high. As a result, Exelon continues to be challenged by current economic conditions. The demand for electricity has been lower in the ComEd and PECO service territories, meaning relatively fewer retail sales in both areas than in previous years. Lower demand and other factors associated with the global slowdown in economic activity have caused oil, coal and natural gas prices to fall, and have also depressed wholesale electricity prices and therefore led to lower margins for Exelons wholesale generation fleet. With respect to natural gas in particular, the price of which is generally the most closely correlated to the price of electricity, the reduction has been significant. A fundamentally oversupplied natural gas market has resulted at times in prices below $3 per million British Thermal Units. Additionally, factors other than the weak global economy have contributed to lower natural gas prices. In particular, recent technological innovation has enabled the extraction of natural gas from North Americas vast shale formations at a cost that the markets can support even in a lower price environment. Exelons existing hedging policies are intended to reduce price volatility and maintain financial discipline. Although Exelons hedging policies have helped protect Exelons earnings as markets have declined, a period of prolonged depressed electricity prices would adversely impact Exelons and Generations results of operations in the future. Further discussion of commodity price risk is included in ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The volatility in the economy could affect the Registrants business. The Registrants have continued to assess the impact, if any, of market developments on their respective financial condition, including access to liquidity, counterparty creditworthiness, and the value of investments and other assets. See PART I. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the effects of continued uncertainty in the capital and credit markets or significant bank failures. New Growth Opportunities Generation pursues growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize shareholder value, taking earnings, cash flow and financial risk into account. During 2009, Generation announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that will generate between 1,300 and 1,500 MW of additional generation capacity within eight years. The uprate projects represent a total investment of approximately $3.5 billion, as measured in current costs. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately one quarter of the planned uprates, are underway at the Limerick and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants in Illinois. The remainder of uprate MW will come from additional projects across Generations nuclear fleet beginning in 2010 and ending in 2017. At 1,500 nuclear generated MW, the uprates would displace 8 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates have an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. 65 Table of Contents PECO plans to implement Smart Meter and Smart Grid technologies for all customers within their service territory to comply with Act 129. PECO plans to spend approximately $650 million on Smart Meter and Smart Grid investments, which is expected to be recovered with a return on investment from customers through regulated rates. In October 2009, the DOE announced its intent to award PECO $200 million in the ARRA of 2009 matching grant funds under the Smart Grid Investment Grant Program. PECO will deduct any costs paid with DOE funds from amounts recoverable from customers. The new infrastructure will provide the basis for the communications network and information systems to integrate customer energy usage with utility operations, enabling two way communication. Assuming successful completion of the DOE negotiations and PECOs receipt of the full grant on reasonable terms, PECO is committed to implementing expanded initial deployment of 600,000 meters within three years and accelerating universal smart meter deployment from 15 years to 10 years. In addition, PECO may have additional costs associated with the replacement of gas meters and the wind down of its legacy automated meter reading system. In October 2009, the ICC approved ComEds proposed AMI pilot program, with minor modifications, and recovery of substantially all program costs from customers. ComEd expects to have the program fully implemented in early summer 2010. The total anticipated cost of the pilot program is approximately $69 million. The AMI pilot program allows ComEd to study the costs and benefits related to automated metering and to develop the cost estimate of potential full system wide implementation of AMI. In addition, the program allows customers the ability to manage energy use, improve energy efficiency and lower energy bills. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements for more information. In the third quarter of 2009, Exelon established Exelon Transmission, which is a new venture that will seek to capitalize on the growing national market for new transmission lines. Exelon Transmission enters a market in which U.S. companies are projected to spend $60 $100 billion on transmission development projects by 2020. New transmission projects have the potential to reduce congestion, improve reliability, and facilitate movement of renewable energy, such as wind and solar, to population centers where it is needed most. Exelon will leverage existing members of management for the initial phases of the project. Exelon Transmissions portfolio will evolve over time and may include projects with both traditional, regulated profiles as well as more competitive, market based investments. Exelon expects to provide $10 million in funding to Exelon Transmission in 2010. Additional expenditures will be determined on a project by project basis in accordance with Exelons normal project evaluation standards. Liquidity and Cost Management Exelon is subject to significant ongoing cost pressures during these challenging economic times. Exelon is committed to operating its businesses responsibly and managing its operating and capital costs in a manner that serves its customers and produces value for its shareholders. Exelon is also committed to an ongoing strategy to make itself more effective, efficient and innovative. In 2009, Exelon launched a company wide cost management initiative, which combines short term actions with long term change. In the short term, Exelon realized cost savings of approximately $200 million in 2009 over 2008, primarily as a result of the elimination of 500 positions within BSC and ComEd, productivity improvements and stringent controls on supply spending, contracting and overtime costs. Exelon is committed to maintaining a cost control focus and expects to largely offset increasing pension and benefits expense and general inflation in 2010 with additional cost savings, including freezing executive salaries and reducing employee benefits. With regard to long term changes, Exelon is analyzing cost trends over the past five years to identify future cost savings opportunities and implementing more planning and performance measurement tools that allow it to better identify areas for sustainable productivity improvements and cost reductions across the Registrants. 66 Table of Contents The Registrants credit facilities largely extend through October 2012 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and February 2011 for ComEd. These credit facilities currently provide sufficient liquidity to the Registrants. Additionally, upon maturity of these credit facilities, the Registrants may not be able to renew or replace these existing facilities at current terms or commitment levels from banks. Consequently, the Registrants may face increased costs for liquidity needs and may choose to establish alternative liquidity sources to supply the balance of their needs beginning in 2010 for ComEd and in 2011 for Exelon, Generation and PECO. Regulatory Matters In July 2009, comprehensive legislation was enacted into law in Illinois which provides public utility companies the ability to bill or refund customers for the difference between the companys annual uncollectible expense and amounts collected in rates through a rider mechanism. The legislation allows a public utility company to bill customers for under collections of accounts starting with 2008 and prospectively. ComEd under collected approximately $26 million during 2008 and approximately $44 million during 2009. On February 2, 2010, the ICC issued an order approving ComEds proposed tariffs for collecting the increases or decreases in uncollectible accounts expense, with minor modifications. With the ICCs approval of the tariff, ComEd will begin collecting past due amounts in April 2010. ComEd will record the $70 million benefit in the first quarter of 2010. ComEd is also required to make a one time contribution of approximately $10 million to the Supplemental Low Income Energy Assistance Fund to assist low income residential customers through the forgiveness of a portion of past due amounts. During 2009, PECO, in accordance with its PAPUC approved DSP Program, conducted two competitive procurements and entered into contracts with various counterparties, which included Generation, to procure electric supply for the residential, small commercial and medium commercial procurement classes beginning in 2011 in preparation for the expiration of its electric generation rate caps and its PPA with Generation on December 31, 2010. PECO will procure additional electric supply through seven more procurements of full requirements and forward purchase energy block contracts of varying lengths in accordance with the plan approved by the PAPUC. PECO has also been engaged in regulatory proceedings including Rate Mitigation Plans, Energy Efficiency and Conservation Plan and other regulatory filings to comply with the requirements of Act 129. Although these proceedings support competitive, market based procurement during the 29 month term of the approved DSP Program, elected officials in Pennsylvania have suggested rate increase deferrals and phase ins, rate cap extensions, a generation tax and contributions of value by Pennsylvania utility companies toward rate relief programs that could have a significant impact on PECO and Generation. The Pennsylvania Legislature is currently considering HB 80, which, if enacted into law, would increase the minimum required percentage of electric energy to be procured from alternative energy resources in Pennsylvania, expand the solar purchase and sale requirements and would incorporate advanced coal combustion with limited carbon emissions as an acceptable alternative energy resource. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to these matters. Environmental Legislation Exelon supports the passage of comprehensive climate change legislation that balances the need to protect consumers, business and the economy with the urgent need to reduce GHG 67 Table of Contents emissions in the United States. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2454. Among its various components, the bill proposes mandatory, economy wide GHG reduction targets and goals that would be achieved via a Federal emissions cap and trade program. If enacted, H.R. 2454 is expected to increase wholesale power prices as generating units reflect the price of carbon emission permits and the cost of emission reduction technology in their bids to supply energy to wholesale markets in order to recover their costs of compliance with carbon regulation. Due to its overall low carbon generation portfolio, under the provisions of H.R. 2454, Exelon expects that its operating revenues would increase significantly. In September 2009, the U.S. Senate introduced its version of climate change legislation that is similar to H.R. 2454, but does not yet provide specific details regarding allowance allocations. Any bill passed by the U.S. Senate would need to be reconciled with H.R. 2454, approved by both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, and signed by President Obama before becoming law. Exelon announced on May 6, 2005 that it had established a voluntary goal to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. This goal was achieved by December 31, 2008 through Exelons planned GHG management efforts, including the previous closure of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and its current energy efficiency initiatives. In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels). See Item 1. General Business for further discussion of Exelons voluntary GHG emissions reductions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail related to environmental matters, including the impact of environmental regulation. Healthcare Reform Legislation In 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate each passed its own version of healthcare reform bills that would fundamentally change the nations healthcare system. Due to the uncertainty as to the final outcome of Federal healthcare reform legislation, the Registrants are unable to estimate the effects on their respective results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. Competitive Markets Generation is exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of its electricity portfolio. Generation enters into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps, and options, with approved counterparties to hedge this anticipated exposure. Generation has hedges in place that significantly mitigate this risk for 2010 and 2011. However, Generation is exposed to relatively greater commodity price risk in the subsequent years for which a larger portion of its electricity portfolio may be unhedged. Generation currently hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2009, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 91% 94%, 69% 72% and 37% 40% for 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this price risk in subsequent years as well. PECO has transferred substantially all of its commodity price risk 68 Table of Contents related to its procurement of electricity to Generation through a PPA that expires on December 31, 2010. Since PECO entered into its PPA with Generation, market prices for energy have generally been higher than the generation rates PECO has paid for purchased power, which represents the rates paid by PECO customers. Generations margins on its other sales have therefore generally been higher. The expiration of the PPA with PECO at the end of 2010 will likely result in increases in margins earned by Generation beginning in 2011 for the portion of Generations electricity portfolio previously sold to PECO under the PPA. While Generations three year ratable hedging program considers the expiration of the PPA the ultimate impact of entering into new power supply contracts will depend on a number of factors, including future wholesale market prices, capacity markets, energy demand and the effects of any new applicable Pennsylvania laws and or rules and regulations promulgated by the PAPUC. Both PECO and ComEd mitigate exposure to commodity price risk through the recovery of procurement costs from retail customers. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services, coal and natural gas are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 56% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2010 through 2014 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Generation uses long term contracts and financial instruments such as over the counter and exchange traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions within its Accounting and Disclosure Governance Committee on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committees of the Exelon, ComEd and PECO Boards of Directors. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional discussion of the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations (Exelon and Generation) Generation must make significant estimates and assumptions in accounting for its obligation to decommission its nuclear generating plants in accordance with the authoritative guidance for AROs. The authoritative guidance requires that Generation estimate its obligation for the future decommissioning of its nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, Generation uses a probability weighted, discounted cash flow model that considers multiple outcome scenarios based upon significant estimates and assumptions embedded in the following: Decommissioning Cost Studies. Generation uses decommissioning cost studies on a unit by unit basis to provide a marketplace assessment of the costs and timing of decommissioning 69 Table of Contents activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within its industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of Generations nuclear units at least every five years. Cost Escalation Studies. Generation uses cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies are used to determine escalation factors and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal and other costs. Cost escalation studies are updated on an annual basis. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Generations probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various cost, decommissioning alternatives and timing scenarios on a unit by unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of actual costs plus 20% (high cost scenario) or minus 15% (low cost scenario) over the base cost scenario. Probabilities assigned to decommissioning alternatives assess the likelihood of performing DECON (a method of decommissioning in which the equipment, structures, and portions of a facility and site containing radioactive contaminants are removed and safely buried in a LLRW landfill or decontaminated to a level that permits property to be released for unrestricted use shortly after the cessation of operations), Delayed DECON (similar to the DECON scenario but with a delay to allow for spent fuel to be removed from the site prior to onset of decommissioning activities) or SAFSTOR (a method of decommissioning in which the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated to levels that permit release for unrestricted use generally within 60 years after cessation of operations) procedures. Probabilities assigned to the timing scenarios incorporate the likelihood of continued operation through current license lives or through anticipated license renewals. Generations probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal, which Generation currently assumes will begin in 2020, based on the DOEs most recent indication. For more information regarding the estimated date that DOE will begin accepting SNF, see Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Discount Rates. The probability weighted estimated future cash flows using these various scenarios are discounted using credit adjusted, risk free rates applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. Changes in the assumptions underlying the foregoing items could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions, discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Change in ARO Assumption Increase toARO atDecember 31, 2009 Cost escalation studies Uniform increase in escalation rates of 25 basis points $ 364 Probabilistic cash flow models Increase the likelihood of the high cost scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the low cost scenario by 10 percentage points $ 126 Increase the likelihood of the DECON scenario by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of the SAFSTOR scenario by 10 percentage points $ 231 Increase the likelihood of operating through current license lives by 10 percentage points and decrease the likelihood of operating through anticipated license renewals by 10 percentage points $ 305 If the estimated date for DOE acceptance of SNF were to be extended to 2030, Generations aggregate nuclear decommissioning obligation would be reduced by an immaterial amount. 70 Table of Contents Under the authoritative guidance, the nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions or the expected timing or estimated amount of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants. For more information regarding accounting for nuclear decommissioning obligations, see Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments (Exelon and Generation) The NDT fund investments have been established to satisfy Exelons and Generations nuclear decommissioning obligations. The NDT funds hold debt and equity securities directly and indirectly through commingled funds. Generations investment policies place limitations on the types and investment grade ratings of the securities that may be held by the NDTs. These policies restrict the NDT funds from holding alternative investments and limit the NDT funds exposures to investments in highly illiquid markets. On January 1, 2008, in order to align the accounting treatment of changes in the fair value of NDT fund investments in both an unrealized gain and an unrealized loss position, Generation elected the irrevocable option to measure financial assets and liabilities at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings with respect to these investments. Therefore, the investments are carried at fair value with all changes in fair value being recognized through the statement of operations. See Notes 7 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the NDT funds. Asset Impairments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Goodwill (Exelon and ComEd) Exelon and ComEd have goodwill relating to the acquisition of ComEd in 2000 under the PECO/Unicom Merger. Under the provisions of the authoritative guidance for goodwill, Exelon and ComEd perform assessments for impairment of their goodwill at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs, such as a significant negative regulatory outcome, or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit below its carrying amount. The impairment assessment is performed using a two step, fair value based test. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step requires an allocation of fair value to the individual assets and liabilities using purchase price allocation guidance in order to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recorded as a reduction to goodwill and a charge to operating expense. In general, in applying the second step, fair value increases to assets and or fair value decreases to liabilities would increase the size of any impairment. For example, a decrease in the fair value of ComEds debt would increase the size of any impairment and vice versa. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assigning assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units, determining the fair value of the reporting unit and, in applying the second step (if needed), determining the fair value of specific assets and liabilities of the reporting entity. See Note 6 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The FASBs fair value measurement and disclosure guidance for all nonrecurring fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and liabilities, including goodwill, was effective for the Registrants as of January 1, 2009. This authoritative guidance clarified that fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants under current market conditions. As a result, Exelon and ComEd now estimate the fair value of the ComEd reporting unit using a weighted combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and a market multiples analysis instead of the expected cash flow approach used in 2008 and prior years. The discounted cash flow analysis relies on a single scenario reflecting base case or 71 Table of Contents best estimate projected cash flows for ComEds business and includes an estimate of ComEds terminal value based on these expected cash flows using the generally accepted Gordon Dividend Growth formula, which derives a valuation using an assumed perpetual annuity based on the entitys residual cash flows. The discount rate is based on the generally accepted Capital Asset Pricing Model and represents the weighted average cost of capital of comparable companies. The market multiples analysis utilizes multiples of business enterprise value to earnings, before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of comparable companies in estimating fair value. Significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value include ComEds capital structure, discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance, operating and capital expenditure requirements, fair value of debt, the selection of comparable companies and recent transactions. Management performs a reconciliation of the sum of the estimated fair value of all Exelon reporting units to Exelons enterprise value based on its trading price to corroborate the results of the discounted cash flow analysis and the market multiples analysis. The regulatory environment has provided more certainty related to ComEds future cash flows. Although financial markets have stabilized over the past year, current economic conditions continue to impact the market related assumptions used in the November 1, 2009 annual assessment. While ComEd did not recognize an impairment in 2009, deterioration of the market related factors used in the impairment review could potentially result in a future impairment loss of ComEds goodwill, which could be material. If any combination of changes to significant assumptions resulted in a 5% reduction in fair value as of November 1, 2009, ComEd still would have passed the first step of the goodwill assessment. Long lived Assets (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO evaluate the carrying value of their long lived assets, excluding goodwill, when circumstances indicate the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Conditions that could have an adverse impact on the cash flows and fair value of the long lived assets include general deterioration in the business climate, including current economic energy market conditions, deterioration in the physical condition or operating performance of the asset, specific regulatory disallowance or plans to dispose of a long lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long lived assets for impairment requires significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. For the generation business, forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power, costs of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the realizability of an asset and, thus, could have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long lived assets are largely independent of other groups of assets and liabilities. For the generation business, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. For ComEd and PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by evaluation of several factors including the ratemaking jurisdiction in which they operate and the type of service or commodity. For ComEd the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission and distribution and for PECO, the lowest level of independent cash flows is transmission, distribution and gas. Impairment may occur when the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the associated future undiscounted cash flows. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates that the carrying value of a long lived asset or asset group is not recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long lived asset or asset group over its fair value. An impairment is reported by the affected Registrant as a reduction to both the long lived asset and current period earnings. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment evaluations made by Generation. 72 Table of Contents Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have significant investments in electric generation assets and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets. Depreciation of these assets is generally provided over their estimated service lives on a straight line basis using the composite method. The estimation of service lives requires management judgment regarding the period of time that the assets will be in use. As circumstances warrant, the estimated service lives are reviewed to determine if any changes are needed. Depreciation rates incorporate assumptions on interim retirements based on actual historical retirement experience. To the extent interim retirement patterns change, this could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. Changes to depreciation estimates resulting from a change in the estimated end of service lives could have a significant impact on the amount of depreciation expense recorded in the income statement. The estimated service lives of the nuclear generating facilities are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which assume a 20 year license renewal extension of the operating licenses for all of Generations operating nuclear generating stations. While Generation has received license renewals for certain facilities, and has applied for or expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals for the remaining facilities, circumstances may arise that would prevent Generation from obtaining additional license renewals. Generation also periodically evaluates the estimated service lives of its fossil fuel generating facilities based on feasibility assessments as well as economic and capital requirements. The estimated service lives of the hydroelectric generating facilities are based on the remaining useful lives of the stations, which assume a license renewal extension of the operating licenses. A change in depreciation estimates resulting from Generations extension or reduction of the estimated service lives could have a significant effect on Generations results of operations. ComEd is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the ICC. ComEd filed a depreciation rate study with the ICC in January 2009, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. PECO is required to file a depreciation rate study at least every five years with the PAPUC. In August 2005, PECO filed a depreciation rate study with the PAPUC for both its electric and gas assets, which resulted in the implementation of new depreciation rates effective March 2006. Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Exelon sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for substantially all Generation, ComEd, PECO, and Exelon Corporate employees. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs associated with providing benefits under these plans involve several factors, including development of valuation assumptions and determining accounting elections. When developing the various assumptions that are required, Exelon considers historical information as well as future expectations. The measurement of benefit costs is affected by the actual rate of return on plan assets, and assumptions, including the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, the long term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, the anticipated rate of increase of healthcare costs and the level of benefits provided to employees and retirees, among other factors. The assumptions are updated annually and upon any interim remeasurement of the plan obligations. As required by the authoritative guidance, the impact of assumption changes on pension and other postretirement benefit 73 Table of Contents obligations is generally recognized over the expected average remaining service period of the employees rather than immediately recognized in the income statement. Pension and postretirement benefit costs attributed to the operating companies are labor costs and ultimately allocated to projects within the operating companies, some of which are capitalized. Pension and postretirement benefit plan assets include equity and fixed income securities held through funds as well as certain alternative investment classes. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement plan assets, including valuation techniques and classification in accordance with authoritative guidance under the fair value hierarchy. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets. The long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption used in calculating pension costs was 8.50%, 8.75% and 8.75% for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The weighted average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 8.10%, 7.80% and 7.85% in 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively. The pension trust activity is non taxable, while other postretirement benefit trust activity is partially taxable. The EROA is based on current asset allocations as described in Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A change in the asset allocation strategy could impact the EROA and related costs. Exelon will use an EROA of 8.50% and 7.83%, for estimating its 2010 pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs, respectively. Exelon calculates the expected return on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets by multiplying the EROA by the MRV of plan assets at the beginning of the year, taking into consideration anticipated contributions and benefit payments to be made during the year. In determining MRV, the authoritative guidance for pensions and postretirement benefits allows the use of either fair value or a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over not more than five years. For pension plan assets, Exelon uses a calculated value that adjusts for 20% of the difference between fair value and expected MRV of plan assets. Use of this calculated value approach enables less volatile expected asset returns to be recognized as a component of pension cost from year to year. For other postretirement benefit plan assets, Exelon uses fair value to calculate the MRV. Actual asset returns have a significant effect on the costs reported for the Exelon sponsored pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The actual asset returns across the Registrants pension and other postretirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2009 were approximately 21% compared to an expected long term return assumption of 8.5% and 8.1%, respectively. Those return levels are expected to decrease 2010 and 2011 benefit costs as follows: (dollars in millions) Decrease in 2010Pension Cost Decrease in 2010PostretirementBenefit Cost Decrease in 2011Pension Cost Decrease in 2011PostretirementBenefit Cost 2009 asset returns of 21% $ (28 ) $ (29 ) $ (27 ) $ (28 ) This information assumes that movements in asset returns occur absent changes to other actuarial assumptions, and does not consider any actions management may take, such as changes to the amount and timing of future contributions. The actuarial assumptions used in the determination of pension and postretirement benefit costs are interrelated and changes in other assumptions could have the impact of offsetting all or a portion of the potential decrease in benefit costs set forth above. For example, decreases in actual discount rates, absent changes in other assumptions, increase pension and postretirement costs and obligations. Sensitivities of cost and obligations to key actuarial assumptions are discussed in further detail below. 74 Table of Contents Discount Rate. The discount rate for determining both the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations was 5.83%, 6.09% and 6.20% at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the discount rate was determined by developing a spot rate curve based on the yield to maturity of a universe of high quality non callable (or callable with make whole provisions) bonds with similar maturities to the related pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The spot rates are used to discount the estimated distributions under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. Exelon utilizes an analytical tool developed by its actuaries to select the discount rates. The discount rate assumptions used to determine the obligation at year end will be used to determine the cost for the following year. Exelon will use a discount rate of 5.83% for estimating its 2010 pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs. Healthcare Cost Trend Rate. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates also have a significant effect on the costs reported for Exelons other postretirement benefit plans. In determining the healthcare cost trend rate, Exelon reviews actual recent cost trends and projected future trends. Sensitivity to Changes in Key Assumptions: The following tables illustrate the effects of changing certain of the actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions): Actuarial Assumption Change inAssumption Pension OtherPostretirementBenefits Total Change in 2009 cost: Discount rate (0.5)% $ 44 $ 26 $ 70 EROA (0.5)% 46 6 52 Healthcare trend rate 1.00% 49 49 (1.00)% (40 ) (40 ) Extend the year atwhich the ultimatehealthcare trend rate of 5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years 19 19 Change in benefit obligation at December 31, 2009: Discount rate (0.5)% 727 222 949 EROA (0.5)% Healthcare trend rate 1.00% 448 448 (1.00)% (372 ) (372 ) Extend the year at which the ultimatehealthcare trend rate of5% is forecasted to bereached by 5 years 152 152 Average Remaining Service Period. For pension benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs and certain of its actuarial gains and losses, as applicable, based on participants average remaining service periods. For other postretirement benefits, Exelon amortizes its unrecognized prior service costs over participants average remaining service period related to eligibility age and amortizes its transition obligations and certain actuarial gains and losses over 75 Table of Contents participants average remaining service period to expected retirement. The average remaining service period of defined benefit pension plan participants was 12.7 years, 12.8 years and 13.0 years for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to eligibility age was 6.8 years, 6.9 years and 6.9 years for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average remaining service period of postretirement benefit plan participants related to expected retirement was 9.2 years, 9.4 years and 9.7 years for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Regulatory Accounting (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Exelon, ComEd and PECO account for their regulated electric and gas operations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for certain types of regulations, which requires Exelon, ComEd, and PECO to reflect the effects of rate regulation in their financial statements. Regulatory assets represent costs that have been deferred to future periods when it is probable that the regulator will allow for future recovery through rates charged to customers. Regulatory liabilities represent revenues collected from customers in excess of prescribed recovery that must be refunded to customers through an adjustment of billing rates. Use of this guidance is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (1) third party regulation of rates; (2) cost based rates; and (3) a reasonable expectation that all costs will be recoverable from customers through rates. As of December 31, 2009, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of those operations no longer meets the criteria of this guidance, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of those operations, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria would be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2009, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.7 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEds regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2009, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $1.5 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record an extraordinary gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEds and PECOs regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against OCI (before taxes) of up to $2.5 billion and $92 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelons regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEds goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A significant decrease in equity as a result of any changes could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 2, 6 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory issues, ComEds goodwill and the significant regulatory assets and liabilities of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively. For each regulatory jurisdiction in which they conduct business, Exelon, ComEd and PECO continually assess whether the regulatory assets and liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery or settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in applicable regulatory environments and recent rate orders, including for other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction. Furthermore, Exelon, ComEd and PECO make other judgments related to the financial statement impact of their regulatory environments, such as the types of adjustments to rate base that will be acceptable to regulatory bodies and the types of costs and the extent, if any, to which those costs will be recoverable through rates. Additionally, estimates are made in accordance with the authoritative guidance for contingencies, as to the amount of revenues billed under certain regulatory orders that will ultimately be refunded to customers upon finalization of the appropriate regulatory process. These assessments are based, to the extent possible, on past relevant 76 Table of Contents experience with regulatory bodies, known circumstances specific to a particular matter, discussions held with the applicable regulatory body and other factors. If the assessments and estimates made by Exelon, ComEd and PECO are ultimately different than actual events, the impact on their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be material. Accounting for Derivative Instruments (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants utilize derivative instruments to manage their exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, changes in interest rates related to planned future debt issuances and changes in the fair value of outstanding debt. Generation uses a variety of derivative and non derivative instruments to manage the commodity price risk of its electric generation facilities, including power sales, fuel and energy purchases and other energy related products marketed and purchased. Additionally, Generation enters into energy related derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. ComEd has entered into contracts to procure energy, capacity and ancillary services. In addition, ComEd has a financial swap contract with Generation that extends into 2013. PECO has entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. As part of the preparation for the expiration of the PPA with Generation at the end of 2010, PECO has entered into derivative contracts to procure electric supply through a competitive RFP process as outlined in its PAPUC approved DSP Program. ComEd and PECO do not enter into derivatives for proprietary trading purposes. The Registrants derivative activities are in accordance with Exelons Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. The Registrants account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether or not a contract qualifies as a derivative under this guidance requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing the market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlyings and one or more notional amounts. Further, interpretive guidance related to the authoritative literature continues to evolve, including how it applies to energy and energy related products. Changes in managements assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance related to derivatives, could result in previously excluded contracts being subject to the provisions of the authoritative derivative guidance. Generation has determined that contracts to purchase uranium do not meet the definition of a derivative under the current authoritative guidance since they do not provide for net settlement and the uranium markets are not sufficiently liquid to conclude that forward contracts are readily convertible to cash. If the uranium markets do become sufficiently liquid in the future and Generation begins to account for uranium purchase contracts as derivative instruments, the fair value of these contracts would be accounted for consistent with Generations other derivative instruments. In this case, if market prices differ from the underlying prices of the contracts, Generation would be required to record a mark to market gain or loss, which may have a material impact to Exelons and Generations financial positions and results of operations. Under current authoritative guidance, all derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value unless they qualify for a normal purchases and normal sales exception. Further, derivatives that qualify and are designated for hedge accounting are classified as fair value or cash flow hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in fair values for both the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, the portion of the derivative gain or loss that is effective in offsetting the change in the hedged cash flows of the underlying exposure is deferred in accumulated OCI and later reclassified into earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Gains and losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge are recognized in earnings immediately. For other derivative contracts that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and for energy related derivatives entered for proprietary trading purposes, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognized in earnings each period except for ComEd and PECO, in which changes in the fair value each period are recorded in a regulatory asset or liability. 77 Table of Contents Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the normal purchases and normal sales exception requires that management exercise judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all of the associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts which qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period of time and price is not tied to an unrelated underlying derivative. As part of Generations energy marketing business, Generation enters into contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of its customers. These contracts include short term and long term commitments to purchase and sell energy and energy related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, the transactions have been designated as normal purchases and normal sales and are thus not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. The contracts that ComEd has entered into with Generation and other suppliers as part of the initial ComEd procurement auction and the subsequent RFP process, PECOs full requirements fixed price contracts under the PAPUC approved DSP program and all of PECOs natural gas supply agreements that are derivatives, qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. If it were determined that a transaction designated as a normal purchase or a normal sale no longer met the scope exceptions, the fair value of the related contract would be recorded on the balance sheet and immediately recognized through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. Thereafter, future changes in fair value would be recorded in the balance sheet and recognized through earnings at Generation. Triggering events that could result in a contracts loss of the normal purchase and normal sale designation, because it is no longer probable that the contract will result in physical delivery, include changes in business requirements, changes in counterparty credit and book outs (financial settlements). Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as a qualifying cash flow hedge requires Generation to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP, the forecasted future transaction is probable and the hedging relationship between the commodity contract and the expected future purchase or sale of the commodity is expected to be highly effective at the initiation of the hedge and throughout the hedging relationship. Internal models that measure the statistical correlation between the derivative and the associated hedged item determine the effectiveness of such a commodity contract designated as a hedge. Generation reassesses its cash flow hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be effective and that the forecasted future transactions are probable. When a contract does not meet the effective or probable criteria of the authoritative guidance, hedge accounting is discontinued and changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded through earnings at Generation or offset by a regulatory asset or liability at ComEd and PECO. As a part of accounting for derivatives, the Registrants make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether or not to enter into derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the Registrants categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange based and non exchange based markets. Exchange based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain non exchange based derivatives are valued using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges are categorized in Level 2. These price quotations 78 Table of Contents reflect the average of the bid ask mid point prices and are obtained from sources that the Registrants believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. This includes consideration of actual transaction volumes, market delivery points, bid ask spreads and contract duration. The Registrants non exchange based derivatives are predominately at liquid trading points. The remainder of non exchange based derivative contracts is valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The Black model takes into account inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, including assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For non exchange based derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd, model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs. In instances where observable data is unavailable, consideration is given to the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the asset or liability. This includes assumptions about market risks such as liquidity, volatility and contract duration. Such instruments are categorized in Level 3 as the model inputs generally are not observable. The Registrants consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts categorized in Level 1, 2 and 3, including both historical and current market data in its assessment of nonperformance risk, including credit risk. The impacts of credit and nonperformance risk were not material to the financial statements. Interest Rate Derivative Instruments. The Registrants may utilize fixed to floating interest rate swaps, which are typically designated as fair value hedges, as a means to achieve its targeted level of variable rate debt as a percent of total debt. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. The Registrants use a calculation of future cash inflows and estimated future outflows related to the swap agreements, which are discounted and netted to determine the current fair value. Additional inputs to the present value calculation include the contract terms, as well as market parameters such as interest rates and volatility. As these inputs are based on observable data and valuations of similar instruments, the interest rate swaps are categorized in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes 7 and 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants derivative instruments. Taxation (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Significant management judgment is required in determining the Registrants provisions for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. The Registrants account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two step approach, a more likely than not recognition criterion and a measurement attribute that measures the position as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being ultimately realized upon ultimate settlement in accordance with the authoritative guidance for accounting for uncertain tax positions. If it is not more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit will be recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Registrants consolidated financial statements. 79 Table of Contents The Registrants evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and the availability of tax planning strategies that can be implemented, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Registrants also assess their ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Registrants record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when the Registrants conclude it is more likely than not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Registrants forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. While the Registrants believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to their consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding taxes. Accounting for Contingencies (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) In the preparation of their financial statements, the Registrants make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record loss contingency amounts that are probable and reasonably estimable based upon available information. The amounts recorded may differ from the actual income or expense that occurs when the uncertainty is resolved. The estimates that the Registrants make in accounting for contingencies and the gains and losses that they record upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties could have a significant effect on their consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which the Registrants will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, changes in technology, regulations and the requirements of local governmental authorities. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims The Registrants are self insured for general liability, automotive liability, and personal injury claims to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. The Registrants have reserves for both open claims asserted and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Projecting future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible legislative measures in the United States, could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material effect on the Registrants results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The allowance for uncollectible accounts reflects the Registrants best estimates of probable losses on the accounts receivable balances. The allowance is based on known troubled accounts, 80 Table of Contents historical experience and other currently available evidence. For ComEd and PECO, customer accounts are generally considered delinquent if the amount billed is not received by the time the next bill is issued, which normally occurs on a monthly basis. Customer accounts are written off consistent with approved regulatory guidelines. ComEd and PECO are each currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within their respective franchised territories and are prohibited from terminating electric service to certain residential customers due to nonpayment during certain months of the year. ComEds and PECOs provisions for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices and economic conditions as well as changes in ICC and PAPUC regulations, respectively. Revenue Recognition (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. The determination of Generations, ComEds and PECOs retail energy sales to individual customers, however, is based on systematic readings of customer meters generally on a monthly basis. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated, and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Unbilled revenue is estimated each month based on daily customer usage measured by generation or gas throughput volume, estimated customer usage by class, estimated losses of energy during delivery to customers and applicable customer rates. Increases in volumes delivered to the utilities customers and favorable rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. Changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the estimated unbilled revenue; however, total operating revenues would remain materially unchanged. The determination of Generations energy sales, excluding the retail business, is based on estimated amounts delivered as well as fixed quantity sales. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers during the month are estimated and the corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. Increases in volumes delivered to the wholesale customers in the period, as well as price, would increase unbilled revenue. Results of Operations by Business Segment The comparisons of operating results and other statistical information for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 set forth below include intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in Exelons consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations by Business Segment 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Generation $ 2,122 $ 2,258 $ (136 ) $ 2,025 $ 233 ComEd 374 201 173 165 36 PECO 353 325 28 507 (182 ) Other (a) (143 ) (67 ) (76 ) 29 (96 ) Total $ 2,706 $ 2,717 $ (11 ) $ 2,726 $ (9 ) (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. 81 Table of Contents Net Income (Loss) by Business Segment 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Generation $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ (156 ) $ 2,029 $ 249 ComEd 374 201 173 165 36 PECO 353 325 28 507 (182 ) Other (a) (142 ) (67 ) (75 ) 35 (102 ) Total $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ (30 ) $ 2,736 $ 1 (a) Other primarily includes corporate operations, BSC, investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities and intersegment eliminations. Results of Operations Generation 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Operating revenues $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ (1,051 ) $ 10,749 $ 5 Purchased power and fuel expense 2,932 3,572 640 4,451 879 Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense (a) 6,771 7,182 (411 ) 6,298 884 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 2,938 2,717 (221 ) 2,454 (263 ) Depreciation and amortization 333 274 (59 ) 267 (7 ) Taxes other than income 205 197 (8 ) 185 (12 ) Total other operating expenses 3,476 3,188 (288 ) 2,906 (282 ) Operating income 3,295 3,994 (699 ) 3,392 602 Other income and deductions Interest expense (113 ) (136 ) 23 (161 ) 25 Equity in earnings (losses) of investments (3 ) (1 ) (2 ) 1 (2 ) Other, net 376 (469 ) 845 155 (624 ) Total other income and deductions 260 (606 ) 866 (5 ) (601 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 3,555 3,388 167 3,387 1 Income taxes 1,433 1,130 (303 ) 1,362 232 Income from continuing operations 2,122 2,258 (136 ) 2,025 233 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 20 (20 ) 4 16 Net income $ 2,122 $ 2,278 $ (156 ) $ 2,029 $ 249 (a) Generation evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense. Generation believes that revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. Revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 82 Table of Contents Net Income Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were significantly affected by lower revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense primarily due to unfavorable portfolio and market conditions, including decreased net mark to market gains from its hedging activities, and revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio recorded in 2008. Additionally, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was affected by gains related to the settlement of uranium supply agreements in 2008 and higher nuclear fuel costs in 2009 due to rising nuclear fuel prices. The decrease in Generations revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense was partially offset by lower costs related to the Illinois Settlement. Generations 2009 results compared to 2008 were further affected by higher operating and maintenance expenses. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were primarily due to a $223 million charge associated with the impairment of the Handley and Mountain Creek stations and costs associated with the announced shut down of three coal fired and one dual fossil fired generation unit in Pennsylvania. These actions were a direct result of current and future expected market conditions. Market conditions also contributed to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008, which resulted in higher pension and other postretirement benefits expense in 2009. Higher operating and maintenance expenses were partially offset by the favorable results of Exelons companywide cost savings initiative and lower nuclear refueling outage costs. Additionally, due to a significant rebound in the financial markets, Generation experienced strong performance in its NDT funds in 2009. As a result, Generations earnings improved as its NDTs of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units had significant net realized and unrealized gains in 2009 compared to significant net realized and unrealized losses in 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generations 2008 results were significantly affected by higher revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense compared to 2007 primarily due to favorable portfolio and market conditions, including increased net mark to market gains from its hedging activities, and revenue from certain long options in Generations proprietary trading portfolio recorded in 2008, which were primarily the result of favorable energy prices. Additionally, Generations revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was affected by lower costs incurred in conjunction with the Illinois Settlement and the gain on the termination of the State Line Energy, L.L.C. (State Line) PPA in 2007. Generations 2008 results compared to 2007 were further affected by higher operating and maintenance expenses. Higher operating and maintenance expenses included higher nuclear planned refueling outage costs and higher labor and contracting costs. Additionally, due to a sharp decline in the financial markets, Generations NDTs of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units had significant net realized and unrealized losses in 2008. 83 Table of Contents Operating Revenues For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Generations sales were as follows: Revenue 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 2007 2008 vs. 2007 Variance %Change Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates $ 3,470 $ 3,588 $ (118 ) (3.3 )% $ 3,537 $ 51 1.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 5,978 6,693 (715 ) (10.7 )% 6,834 (141 ) (2.1 )% Total electric sales revenue 9,448 10,281 (833 ) (8.1 )% 10,371 (90 ) (0.9 )% Retail gas sales 295 497 (202 ) (40.6 )% 449 48 10.7 % Trading portfolio 1 106 (105 ) (99.1 )% 43 63 146.5 % Other operating revenue (a) (41 ) (130 ) 89 68.5 % (114 ) (16 ) (14.0 )% Total operating revenues $ 9,703 $ 10,754 $ (1,051 ) (9.8 )% $ 10,749 $ 5 0.0 % (a) Includes costs incurred for the Illinois Settlement and revenues relating to fossil fuel sales and decommissioning revenue from PECO during 2009, 2008 and 2007. Sales (in GWh) 2009 2008 2009 vs. 2008 2007 2008 vs. 2007 Variance %Change Variance %Change Electric sales to affiliates 58,643 64,652 (6,009 ) (9.3 )% 64,406 246 0.4 % Wholesale and retail electric sales 114,422 111,522 2,900 2.6 % 125,244 (13,722 ) (11.0 )% Total electric sales 173,065 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% Trading volumes of 7,578 GWh, 8,891 GWh and 20,323 GWh for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, are not included in the table above. Electric sales to affiliates. The changes in Generations electric sales to affiliates for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Electric sales to affiliates Variance 2009 vs. 2008 Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Price Volume (Decrease) Price Volume Increase ComEd $ 264 $ (313 ) $ (49 ) $ (13 ) $ 40 $ 27 PECO (14 ) (55 ) (69 ) 43 (19 ) 24 Total $ 250 $ (368 ) $ (118 ) $ 30 $ 21 $ 51 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Of the $264 million price variance in the ComEd territories, $294 million is related to an increase in settlements from the ComEd swap. This increase is partially offset by decreased prices realized for sales under the RFP. The volume decrease in the ComEd territories is due primarily to the expiration of certain tranches served under the auction contract, partially offset by an increase in deliveries to ComEd under the RFP. In the PECO territories, the decrease in price reflects an unfavorable change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPA with Generation and the volume decrease was primarily due to unfavorable economic conditions. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. In the ComEd territories, the volume increase was primarily the result of an acquisition by Generation of an unrelated third partys supply obligations under the ComEd auction effective January 1, 2008, as well as volumes sold under the ComEd RFP, which started in September 2008. The price decrease in the ComEd 84 Table of Contents territories was largely due to final reconciliation activity recorded in 2007 associated with the full requirements ComEd PPA which ended on December 31, 2006. This decrease was offset by a $29 million increase in revenue related to the ComEd RFP. In the PECO territories, the price increase reflects a favorable change in the mix of average pricing related to PECOs PPA with Generation, in addition to the effects of the last scheduled rate increase under the PPA, which took effect in mid January 2007. The volume decrease in the PECO territories was primarily due to unfavorable weather conditions. Wholesale and retail electric sales. The decrease in Generations wholesale and retail electric sales for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) 2009vs.2008 2008vs.2007 Price $ (891 ) $ 606 Volume 176 (747 ) Decrease in wholesale and retail electric sales $ (715 ) $ (141 ) Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily the result of an overall decrease in market prices, partially mitigated by higher volumes of generation sold to the wholesale and retail markets as a result of a decrease in affiliate load served and increased nuclear generation as a result of a decrease in refueling and non refueling outage days. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in volumes was reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts in addition to lower volumes of generation sold to the market, including the termination of Generations PPA with State Line in October 2007. The increase in price was primarily the result of an overall increase in market prices. Retail gas sales. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Retail gas sales decreased $202 million of which $131 million was due to lower realized prices and $71 million was due to lower volumes as a result of decreased demand. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Retail gas sales increased $48 million of which $74 million was due to higher realized prices, partially offset by a $26 million decrease due to lower volumes as a result of decreased demand. Trading Portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The trading portfolio revenues decreased $105 million which was due primarily to earnings in 2008 from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The trading portfolio revenues increased $63 million which was due primarily to earnings from certain long options in the proprietary trading portfolio in 2008. Other revenue. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in other revenues was primarily due to $123 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the 2007 Illinois Settlement further described in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, partially offset by $24 million in lower fuel sales. 85 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in other revenues was primarily due to $223 million of income in 2007 associated with the termination of State Line PPA, partially offset by $187 million in reduced customer credits issued to ComEd and Ameren associated with the 2007 Illinois Settlement and a $14 million Salem oil spill settlement received in December 2008. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the oil spill settlement. Purchased Power and Fuel Expense. Generations supply sources are summarized below: 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Supply Source (in GWh) 2009 2008 Variance %Change 2007 Variance %Change Nuclear generation (a) 139,670 139,342 328 0.2 % 140,359 (1,017 ) (0.7 )% Purchases 23,206 26,263 (3,057 ) (11.6 )% 38,021 (11,758 ) (30.9 )% Fossil and hydroelectric generation 10,189 10,569 (380 ) (3.6 )% 11,270 (701 ) (6.2 )% Total supply 173,065 176,174 (3,109 ) (1.8 )% 189,650 (13,476 ) (7.1 )% (a) Includes Generations proportionate share of the output of its nuclear generating plants, including Salem Generating Station (Salem), which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. The following table presents changes in Generations purchased power and fuel expense for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007. Generation considers the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense as a useful measure to analyze the profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, the aggregation of purchased power and fuel expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. Variance 2009 vs. 2008 Variance 2008 vs. 2007 Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Price Volume TotalIncrease(Decrease) Purchased power costs and tolling agreement costs (a) $ (610 ) $ (306 ) $ (916 ) $ 767 $ (825 ) $ (58 ) Generation costs (b) 168 168 (77 ) (12 ) (89 ) Retail Fuel Costs (146 ) (70 ) (216 ) 87 (25 ) 62 Mark to market n.m. n.m. 271 n.m. n.m. (623 ) Decrease in purchased power and fuel expense $ (693 ) $ (708 ) (a) Variance for 2008 as compared to 2007 presented excludes the net impact of a $119 million loss recorded in 2007 associated with Generations tolling agreement with Georgia Power related to the contract with Tenaska. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Variance for both periods excludes gains of approximately $53 million related to non performance claims for uranium supply agreements recorded in 2008. n.m. Not meaningful. Purchased Power Costs and Tolling Agreement Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Purchased power costs include all costs associated with the procurement of electricity including capacity, energy and fuel costs associated with tolling agreements. Generation incurred overall lower prices for purchased power as a result of the decline in market prices. Generations decreased purchased power volumes were driven by unfavorable market conditions. 86 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation had lower purchased power volumes primarily due to market conditions that resulted in decreased purchases from contracted units as well as decreased volumes due to the termination of the State Line PPA in October 2007. The decrease in volumes was also reflective of an increased use of financial instruments versus physical contracts. Generation incurred overall higher prices for purchased power as a result of an overall increase in market prices. Further, Generations purchased power costs increased $28 million due to the favorable PJM billing dispute settlement with PPL in the first quarter of 2007. Generation Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Generation costs include fuel costs for internally generated energy. Generation experienced overall higher generation costs for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the same period in 2008 primarily as a result of an increase in the cost of nuclear and fossil fuels. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Generation experienced overall lower generation costs for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the same period in 2007 due to decreased fossil fuel costs, lower volumes and gains associated with uranium supply agreement costs, partially offset by increased costs for uranium and fossil fuel inventory impairments of $21 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. Retail Fuel Costs. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Retail fuel cost includes retail gas purchases. The changes in Generations retail fuel costs for 2009 as compared to 2008 consisted of overall lower prices resulting in a decrease of $146 million. This was in addition to lower demand resulting in a volume decrease of $70 million. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The changes in Generations retail fuel costs for 2008 as compared to 2007 consisted of overall higher prices resulting in an increase of $75 million, in addition to a retail gas inventory impairment of $12 million during the year 2008. These increases were offset by lower volumes caused by lower demand, which resulted in a decrease of $25 million. Mark to market. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Generation is exposed to market risks associated with changes in commodity prices and enters into economic hedges to mitigate exposure to these fluctuations. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $94 million in 2009, including the impact of the changes in ineffectiveness, compared to gains of $414 million in 2008. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $87 million in 2009 compared to gains of $38 million in 2008. See Notes 7 and 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Mark to market gains on power hedging activities were $414 million in 2008 compared to losses of $253 million in 2007. Mark to market gains on fuel hedging activities were $38 million in 2008 compared to gains of $81 million in 2007. See Notes 7 and 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on gains and losses associated with mark to market derivatives. The following table presents average electric revenues, supply costs and margins per MWh of electricity sold during 2009 as compared 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007. As set forth in the table, average electric margins are defined as average electric revenues less average electric supply costs. Generation considers average electric margins useful measures to analyze the change in profitability of electric operations between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to 87 Table of Contents the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these margins are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information Generation provides elsewhere in this report. ($/MWh) 2009 2008 2009 vs.2008% Change 2007 2008 vs.2007% Change Average electric revenue Electric sales to affiliates (a) $ 54.19 $ 55.50 (2.4 )% $ 54.90 1.1 % Wholesale and retail electric sales (a) 54.79 59.99 (8.7 )% 54.59 9.9 % Total excluding the trading portfolio 54.59 58.35 (6.4 )% 54.70 6.7 % Average electric supply cost (b) (c) excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 16.39 $ 19.87 (17.5 )% $ 19.54 1.7 % Average margin excluding the proprietary trading portfolio $ 38.20 $ 38.48 (0.7 )% $ 35.16 9.4 % (a) $292 million of pre tax revenue, and $2 million of a pre tax reduction in revenue, resulting from the settlement of the ComEd swap starting in June 2008, have been excluded from Electric sales to affiliates and included in Wholesale and retail electric sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Additionally, $88 million (1,916 GWh) and $29 million (486 GWh) of pre tax revenue, resulting from sales to ComEd under the RFP, which started in September 2008, have been excluded from Electric sales to affiliates and included in Wholesale and retail electric sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 209 and December 31, 2008, respectively. In addition, REC sales to affiliates have been included within Wholesale and retail electric sales. (b) Average supply cost includes purchased power and fuel costs associated with electric sales excluding the impact of mark to market hedging activities. Average electric supply cost does not include fuel costs associated with retail gas sales and other sales for all periods presented. (c) For year 2007, excludes the net impact of the $119 million loss related to the execution of the Georgia Power PPA and costs related to the termination of the State Line PPA during 2007. The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for 2009, as compared to 2008 and 2007, for the Exelon operated plants. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. Nuclear fleet production cost is defined as the costs to produce one MWh of energy, including fuel, materials, labor, contracting and other miscellaneous costs, but excludes depreciation and certain other non production related overhead costs. Generation considers capacity factor and production costs useful measures to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. Generation has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. 2009 2008 2007 Nuclear fleet capacity factor (a) 93.6 % 93.9 % 94.5 % Nuclear fleet production cost per MWh (a) $ 16.07 $ 15.87 (b) $ 14.46 (a) Excludes Salem, which is operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC. (b) Excludes the $53 million reduction in fuel expense related to uranium supply agreement non performance settlements. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The nuclear fleet capacity factor, which excludes Salem, decreased primarily due to a higher number of outage days. For 2009 and 2008, scheduled refueling outage days totaled 263 and 241, respectively, and non refueling outage days totaled 78 and 59, respectively. Higher nuclear fuel costs, partially offset by lower refueling outage and other labor and contracting costs, resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2009 as compared to 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. The nuclear fleet capacity factor decreased primarily due to a higher number of planned refueling outage days. For 2008 88 Table of Contents and 2007, refueling outage days totaled 241 and 195, respectively, while non refueling outage days totaled 59 in both years. The lower number of net MWh generated, the impact of inflation on labor and contracting costs, higher nuclear fuel costs and the refueling outage costs associated with the higher number of refueling outage days resulted in a higher production cost per MWh during 2008 as compared to 2007. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Impairment of certain generating assets (a) $ 223 Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense 92 Nuclear insurance credits (b) 28 Announced plant shutdowns (c) 24 Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant (d) (46 ) Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials (e) (35 ) Asset retirement obligation reduction (f) (26 ) Accounts receivable reserve (g) (22 ) Other (17 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 221 (a) Reflects the impairment of certain generating assets in 2009. See Notes 6 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (b) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2008. No premiums were received for 2009. (c) Reflects severance related and inventory write down costs incurred in 2009 associated with the announced plant shutdowns. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (d) Primarily reflects the impact of decreased planned and unplanned nuclear outage days in 2009. (e) Primarily reflects the impact of Exelons 2009 cost savings program. (f) Primarily reflects an increased reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the non regulatory agreement units during 2009 as compared to 2008. (g) Reflects the impact of an increase in accounts receivable reserves recorded in 2008 as a result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Nuclear refueling outage costs, including the co owned Salem Plant (a) $ 88 Labor, other benefits, contracting and materials 74 Decommissioning related activities (b) 47 Accounts receivable reserve (c) 22 Asset retirement obligation reduction (d) 19 Nuclear insurance credits (e) 15 New nuclear plant development costs (f) (22 ) Other 20 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 263 (a) Reflects a higher number of nuclear refueling outage days in 2008 compared to 2007. (b) Reflects an increase in the contractual elimination of income taxes associated with the decommissioning trusts funds of the former ComEd and PECO nuclear generating units (Regulatory Agreement Units). (c) Reflects an increase in the accounts receivable reserve recorded in 2008 as a result of Generations direct net exposure to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 89 Table of Contents (d) Reflects a decreased reduction in the ARO in excess of the related ARC balances for the Non Regulatory Agreement Units and fossil units during 2008 as compared to 2007. (e) Reflects the impact of the return of property and business interruption insurance premiums in 2008 compared to 2007. (f) Reflects a reduction in costs associated with possible construction of a nuclear power plant in southeast Texas. Depreciation and Amortization Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was a result of a change in the estimated useful lives of the plants associated with the 2009 announced shutdowns further described in Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which resulted in $32 million of accelerated depreciation. Additionally, the change in the estimated useful life of a fossil fired power plant in 2008 resulted in $18 million higher depreciation expense in 2009. The remaining increase is primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the impact of the reassessment of the useful lives of several other fossil fired facilities in 2008 and reduced depreciation associated with the generating assets impaired in 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to higher plant balances due to capital additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages), partially offset by the reassessment of the useful lives of several fossil facilities. The impact of the reassessment of the useful lives did not result in a material change to Generations results of operations as compared to amounts recognized in periods prior to the change. Taxes Other Than Income Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase was primarily due to a $9 million gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the increase was primarily due to higher payroll taxes of $11 million and higher property taxes of $8 million, partially offset by a $9 million gross receipts tax adjustment in 2008. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the decrease in interest expense reflects lower interest of $16 million on SNF obligations as a result of lower rates. Interest on the spent fuel obligation accrues at the 13 week Treasury Rate and is recalculated on a quarterly basis. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Additionally, the decrease in interest expense reflects a $16 million increase in capitalized interest during 2009 as compared to 2008. These decreases in interest expense are partially offset by a $9 million increase in interest expense related to uncertain tax positions. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease in interest expense reflected lower interest of $29 million on SNF obligations as a result of lower rates and a $24 million decrease in interest expense related to a change in the estimate of interest on uncertain tax positions, partially offset by increased interest of $27 million from higher outstanding long term debt balances as a result of the September 2007 bond issuance. 90 Table of Contents Other, Net Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. For 2009 as compared to 2008, the increase reflects net unrealized gains in 2009 on the NDT funds of its Non Regulatory Agreement Units as compared to net unrealized losses in 2008. See the table below for additional information. Additionally, the increase reflects the contractual elimination of $181 million of income tax expense associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units in 2009 compared to the contractual elimination of $202 million of income tax benefit in 2008. These increases are partially offset by the impacts of income in 2008 related to the termination of a gas supply guarantee and $71 million of expense related to long term debt extinguished in the third and fourth quarter of 2009 further described in Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. For 2008 as compared to 2007, the decrease primarily reflects net unrealized losses in 2008 on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units due to adverse financial market conditions, the contractual elimination of income tax benefits associated with the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units, realized losses on the trust funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units due to the execution of a tax planning strategy in 2008, and realized gains in 2007 on NDT fund investments of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units associated with changes in Generations investment strategy, partially offset by a gain on sale of TEG and TEP in 2007. The following table provides unrealized and realized gains (losses) on the NDT funds of the Non Regulatory Agreement Units recognized in other, net for 2009, 2008 and 2007: 2009 2008 2007 Net unrealized gains (losses) on decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 227 $ (324 ) $ (b) Net realized gains (losses) on sale of decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units $ 29 $ (39 ) $ 64 Other than temporary impairment of decommissioning trust funds Non Regulatory Agreement Units (a) n/a $ n/a $ (9 ) (a) As a result of certain NRC regulations, Exelon and Generation were unable to demonstrate the ability and intent to hold the NDT fund investments through a recovery period and, accordingly, recognized any unrealized holding losses immediately. After the January 1, 2008 adoption of the fair value option, other than temporary impairments are no longer recognized since all changes in fair value are recognized in the Statement of Operations beginning January 1, 2008. (b) Unrealized gains and losses were included in accumulated OCI on Exelons and Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets prior to the January 1, 2008 adoption of the fair value option. Effective Income Tax Rate. Generations effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 40.3%, 33.4% and 40.2%, respectively. During 2008, Generation recorded tax benefits on realized and unrealized losses in its qualified NDT fund investments. The tax benefits on the realized and unrealized losses discussed above were recorded at a higher statutory tax rate than Generations remaining income from operations, resulting in a decreased effective income tax rate. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. 91 Table of Contents Results of Operations ComEd 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Operating revenues $ 5,774 $ 6,136 $ (362 ) $ 6,104 $ 32 Purchased power expense 3,065 3,582 517 3,747 165 Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) 2,709 2,554 155 2,357 197 Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 1,028 1,097 69 1,091 (6 ) Operating and maintenance for regulatory required programs 63 28 (35 ) (28 ) Depreciation and amortization 494 464 (30 ) 440 (24 ) Taxes other than income 281 298 17 314 16 Total other operating expenses 1,866 1,887 21 1,845 (42 ) Operating income 843 667 176 512 155 Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (319 ) (348 ) 29 (318 ) (30 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (8 ) 8 (7 ) (1 ) Other, net 79 18 61 58 (40 ) Total other income and deductions (240 ) (338 ) 98 (267 ) (71 ) Income before income taxes 603 329 274 245 84 Income taxes 229 128 (101 ) 80 (48 ) Net income $ 374 $ 201 $ 173 $ 165 $ 36 (a) ComEd evaluates its operating performance using the measure of revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd believes that revenue net of purchased power expense is a useful measurement because it provides information that can be used to evaluate its operational performance. In general, ComEd only earns margin based on the delivery and transmission of electricity. ComEd has included its discussion of revenue net of purchased power expense below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense is not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or deemed more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in ComEds net income was driven primarily by higher revenue net of purchased power expense, reflecting increased distribution rates effective September 16, 2008, partially offset by a decline in electric deliveries, primarily resulting from unfavorable weather conditions and reduced load in 2009. In addition, ComEds increase in net income reflects lower operating and maintenance expenses, lower interest expense, and higher interest income related to the 2009 remeasurement of uncertain income tax positions. The reduction in operating and maintenance expense reflects Exelons company wide cost savings initiative in 2009. The initiative included job reductions, for which ComEd recorded a charge for severance expense as a cost to achieve these savings. ComEd also benefited from decreased storm expenses. Operation and maintenance expense reflect increased pension and other postretirement benefits expense due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. In the September 2008 rate case ruling, the ICC mandated fixed asset disallowances while allowing certain regulatory assets, which were recorded as a net one time charge in 2008. 92 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization expenses increased due to higher plant balances and new depreciation rates effective January 1, 2009. ComEd experienced a decrease in interest expense primarily due to lower outstanding debt in 2009. ComEd also recorded higher interest income related to the remeasurement in 2009 of uncertain income tax positions. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. ComEds net income for 2008 compared to 2007 reflected higher revenue net of purchased power expense, primarily driven by higher transmission rates effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008 and higher distribution rates effective September 16, 2008. In 2008, ComEd received a refund of Illinois Distribution Tax that also contributed to the increase in net income. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable weather, higher operating and maintenance expense, principally driven by disallowances arising from the September 2008 rate case order, higher storm costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense, and higher interest expense. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark up. Therefore, fluctuations in electricity procurement costs have no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on ComEds electricity procurement process. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the choice to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation services. Details of ComEds retail customers purchasing electricity from competitive electric generation suppliers in 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following: 2009 2008 Number of customers at period end 53,400 43,100 Percentage of total retail customers 1 % 1 % Volume (GWh) 44,871 46,950 Percentage of total retail deliveries 52 % 51 % The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Distribution pricing $ 214 Energy efficiency and demand response programs 34 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 10 Transmission (26 ) Volume delivery (40 ) Weather delivery (45 ) Other 8 Total increase $ 155 93 Table of Contents Distribution pricing The increase in retail electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of distribution pricing in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, reflected the impact of the 2007 Rate Case. The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in increased distribution revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Energy efficiency and demand response programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008 and are allowed recovery of the costs of these programs from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. In 2009, ComEd recognized $59 million of revenue associated with these programs, compared to $25 million in 2008. These amounts were offset by equal amounts in operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs. See Note 2 and Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $8 million and $18 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 Settlement Agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments are recorded as a reduction in revenues; therefore, the lower payment in 2009 resulted in a net increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2009 compared to 2008. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Transmission Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense decreased primarily due to a FERC order issued in 2008, which approved incentive recovery treatment of ComEds largest transmission project. The cumulative recognition in 2008 of the 2007 effects of this order resulted in higher revenues in 2008 compared to 2009. This was partially offset by the impact of higher transmission rates effective June 1, 2008 and June 1, 2009, resulting from ComEds FERC approved formula rate. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Volume Delivery The decrease in revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, in 2009 as compared to 2008, reflected decreased average usage per customer and fewer customers in the ComEd service territory. Weather Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were lower in 2009 compared to 2008 due to unfavorable weather conditions. The demand for electricity is affected by weather conditions. Very warm weather in summer months and very cold weather in other months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased customer usage and delivery of electricity. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Degree days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. In ComEds service territory, heating degree days decreased by 4% and cooling degree days decreased by 29% in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. 94 Table of Contents Other Other revenues were higher in 2009 compared to 2008. Other revenues include revenues related to late payment charges, assistance provided to other utilities through mutual assistance programs and recoveries of environmental remediation costs associated with MGP sites. The changes in ComEds electric revenue net of purchased power expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) 2007 Distribution Rate Case $ 75 Transmission 54 Rate relief program 27 Energy efficiency and demand response programs 25 Wholesale contracts 6 2007 City of Chicago Settlement 5 Volume delivery 2 Weather delivery (38 ) Other 41 Total increase $ 197 2007 Distribution Rate Case The ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case approving a $274 million increase in ComEds annual revenue requirement. The order became effective September 16, 2008 resulting in a $75 million increase in revenues for 2008 compared to 2007. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Transmission Transmission revenues net of purchased power expense increased primarily due to a FERC order issued in 2008, which approved incentive recovery treatment of ComEds largest transmission project. The cumulative recognition in 2008 of the 2007 effects of this order resulted in higher revenues in 2008 compared to 2007. In addition, transmission rates increased effective May 1, 2007 and June 1, 2008 resulting from ComEds FERC approved formula rate. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Rate relief program ComEd funded less rate relief credits to customers in 2008 compared to 2007. Credits provided to customers are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues; therefore, the reduction in credits resulted in an increase in revenues net of purchased power expense for 2008 compared to 2007. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Energy efficiency and demand response programs As a result of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, utilities are required to provide energy efficiency and demand response programs beginning June 1, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, 95 Table of Contents ComEd recognized $25 million of revenue associated with these programs. This amount was offset by an equal amount of operating and maintenance expense. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Wholesale Contracts ComEds revenues net of purchased power expense include a $6 million increase primarily due to the expiration of certain wholesale contracts in 2007. 2007 City of Chicago Settlement ComEd paid $18 million and $23 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, under the terms of its 2007 settlement agreement with the City of Chicago. Payments are recorded as a reduction in revenues; therefore, the lower payment resulted in a net increase in revenues for 2008 compared to 2007. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Volume Delivery While ComEds delivery volumes, exclusive of the effects of weather increased slightly compared to 2007 on a full year basis, during the fourth quarter of 2008 ComEd experienced a decrease in volumes. Weather Delivery Revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to unfavorable weather conditions in 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. Cooling degree days were 25% lower for 2008 compared to 2007, partially offset by an 11% increase in heating degree days. Operating and Maintenance Expense The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Pension and non pension postretirement benefits expense $ 51 Severance 19 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (a) 14 Injuries and damages (1 ) Rate Relief Programs (6 ) Corporate allocations (7 ) Fringe benefits (7 ) Wages and salaries (26 ) Contracting and materials (32 ) 2007 Rate Case disallowances (b) (22 ) Incremental storm related costs (40 ) Other (12 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (69 ) (a) The allowance for uncollectable accounts expense increased in part as a result of the current overall negative economic conditions, partially mitigated by ComEds increased collection activities in 2009. (b) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred expenses. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 96 Table of Contents The changes in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) 2007 Rate Case order (a) $ 22 Wages and salaries 15 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense (b) 12 Storm related costs 8 Corporate allocations 6 Injuries and damages (9 ) Contracting (23 ) Post rate freeze period transition expenses incurred in 2007 (26 ) Other 1 Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 6 (a) In September 2008, as a result of the 2007 Rate Case order, ComEd recorded $37 million of fixed asset disallowances; $35 million was recorded as operating and maintenance expense and $2 million was recorded as depreciation expense. In addition, ComEd established regulatory assets of $13 million associated with reversing previously incurred operating and maintenance expenses. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) The allowance for uncollectible accounts expense increased during 2008 due to increased customer account charge offs and the impact of rate relief credits that reduced this expense during 2007. Operating and maintenance expense for regulatory required programs Operating and maintenance expenses for regulatory required programs are costs for various legislative and or regulatory programs that are recoverable from customers on a full and current basis through a reconcilable automatic adjustment clause. An equal and offsetting amount has been reflected in operating revenues during the period. To fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, ComEd initiated the ICC approved energy efficiency and demand response programs in June 2008. In 2009, expenses related to energy efficiency and demand response programs and purchased power administration costs consisted of $59 million and $4 million, respectively, compared to $25 million and $3 million, respectively, for 2008. See Note 2 and Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Depreciation and Amortization Expense The changes in depreciation and amortization expense for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007, consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Depreciation expense associated with higher plant balances $ 25 (a) $ 19 2007 Rate Case asset disallowances (2 ) 2 Other amortization expense 7 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 30 $ 24 (a) Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher plant balances and changes to useful lives of assets based on a depreciation rate study, which became effective January 1, 2009. 97 Table of Contents Taxes Other Than Income Year ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. Taxes other than income decreased for 2009 compared to 2008 primarily as a result of $9 million of property tax settlements recorded in 2009. These settlements will result in lower rates prospectively. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. Taxes other than income decreased for 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of a $14 million refund of 2005 Illinois distribution tax received in 2008. Interest Expense, Net The changes in interest expense for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Uncertain income tax positions remeasurement (a) $ (6 ) $ Interest expense on debt (including financing trusts) (b) (c) (20 ) 29 Interest expense related to uncertain tax positions (d) 6 3 Other (e) (9 ) (2 ) (Decrease) increase in interest expense, net $ (29 ) $ 30 (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (b) In 2008, interest expense included a $7 million charge to reverse previously recognized AFUDC resulting from the January 18, 2008 FERC order granting incentive treatment on ComEds largest transmission project. (c) ComEd Financing II and ComEd Transitional Funding Trust were dissolved in 2008. (d) During the first quarter of 2008, ComEd recorded an increase in interest expense of $6 million related to a settlement with the IRS of a research and development claim. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. (e) Primarily reflects the decrease in interest for short term borrowings in 2009. Other, Net The changes in Other, net for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 Interest income related to uncertain tax positions $ 59 (a) $ (36 ) Gain on disposal of assets and investments 5 Other than temporary impairment of investments (7 ) Other 4 (4 ) Increase (decrease) in Other, net $ 61 $ (40 ) (a) During 2009, ComEd recorded $66 million of interest benefit associated with the remeasurement of income tax positions, specifically related to the 1999 Sale of Fossil Generating Assets, of which, $6 million was recorded as a reversal of interest expense with the remainder recorded in Other, net. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements for more information. 98 Table of Contents Effective Income Tax Rate ComEds effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was 38.0%, 38.9% and 32.7%, respectively. The benefit recorded for the indirect cost capitalization method change in 2007 decreased the effective income tax rate for that year. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. ComEd Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWh) 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Full service (a) Residential 26,619 28,389 (6.2 )% 29,374 (3.4 )% Small commercial & industrial 13,633 14,937 (8.7 )% 16,468 (9.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,216 1,045 16.4 % 1,949 (46.4 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 421 578 (27.2 )% 766 (24.5 )% Total full service 41,889 44,949 (6.8 )% 48,557 (7.4 )% Delivery only (b) Residential 2 n.m n.m Small commercial & industrial 18,601 18,550 0.3 % 17,380 6.7 % Large commercial & industrial 25,452 27,764 (8.3 )% 27,122 2.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 816 636 28.3 % 518 22.8 % Total delivery only 44,871 46,950 (4.4 )% 45,020 4.3 % Total retail deliveries 86,760 91,899 (5.6 )% 93,577 (1.8 )% (a) Reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity from ComEd. (b) Reflects customers electing to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. n.m. Not meaningful. Electric Revenue 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Full service (a) Residential $ 3,115 $ 3,284 (5.1 )% $ 3,161 3.9 % Small commercial & industrial 1,335 1,542 (13.4 )% 1,619 (4.8 )% Large commercial & industrial 73 90 (18.9 )% 154 (41.6 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 44 52 (15.4 )% 67 (22.4 )% Total full service 4,567 4,968 (8.1 )% 5,001 (0.7 )% Delivery only (b) Residential (c) n.m n.m Small commercial & industrial 325 289 12.5 % 261 10.7 % Large commercial & industrial 314 295 6.4 % 276 6.9 % Public authorities & electric railroads 13 7 85.7 % 5 40.0 % Total delivery only 652 591 10.3 % 542 9.0 % Total electric retail revenues 5,219 5,559 (6.1 )% 5,543 0.3 % Other revenue (d) 555 577 (3.8 )% 561 2.9 % Total electric and other revenue $ 5,774 $ 6,136 (5.9 )% $ 6,104 0.5 % (a) Reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity from ComEd, which include the cost of electricity and the cost of transmission and distribution of the electricity. 99 Table of Contents (b) Reflects revenue under tariff rates from customers electing to purchase electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. (c) There were a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternative electric generation suppliers with total activity of less than $1 million for the years 2009, 2008, 2007. (d) Other revenues primarily include transmission revenues from PJM. Other items also include late payment charges and mutual assistance program revenues. n.m. Not meaningful. Results of Operations PECO 2009 2008 Favorable(unfavorable)2009 vs. 2008variance 2007 Favorable(unfavorable)2008 vs. 2007variance Operating revenues $ 5,311 $ 5,567 $ (256 ) $ 5,613 $ (46 ) Purchased power expense and fuel expense 2,746 3,018 272 2,983 (35 ) Revenue net of purchased power expense (a) and fuel expense 2,565 2,549 16 2,630 (81 ) Other operating expenses Operating and maintenance 640 731 91 630 (101 ) Depreciation and amortization 952 854 (98 ) 773 (81 ) Taxes other than income 276 265 (11 ) 280 15 Total other operating expenses 1,868 1,850 (18 ) 1,683 (167 ) Operating income 697 699 (2 ) 947 (248 ) Other income and deductions Interest expense, net (187 ) (226 ) 39 (248 ) 22 Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (24 ) (16 ) (8 ) (7 ) (9 ) Other, net 13 18 (5 ) 45 (27 ) Total other income and deductions (198 ) (224 ) 26 (210 ) (14 ) Income before income taxes 499 475 24 737 (262 ) Income taxes 146 150 4 230 80 Net income 353 325 28 507 (182 ) Preferred security dividends 4 4 4 Net income on common stock $ 349 $ 321 $ 28 $ 503 $ (182 ) (a) PECO evaluates its operating performance using the measures of revenue net of purchased power expense for electric sales and revenue net of fuel expense for gas sales. PECO believes revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense are useful measurements of its performance because they provide information that can be used to evaluate its net revenue from operations. PECO has included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, revenue net of purchased power expense and revenue net of fuel expense figures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies presentations or more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. Net Income Year ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008. The increase in net income was driven primarily by increased operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense and decreased interest expense, which was partially offset by increased operating expenses. The increase in revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense was primarily related to increased gas distribution rates effective January 1, 2009, which were partially offset by reduced electric load. 100 Table of Contents PECOs operating expenses increased as a result of increased scheduled CTC amortization expense and pension and other postretirement benefits expense due to lower than expected pension and postretirement plan asset returns in 2008. The increased operating expenses were partially offset by decreased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense. PECO also experienced a decrease in gross receipts tax expense primarily due to a rate reduction. Year ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007. PECOs net income for 2008 compared to 2007 decreased due to lower operating revenue net of purchased power and fuel expense, reflecting unfavorable weather conditions, as well as higher operating and maintenance expenses primarily driven by an increase in the allowance for uncollectible accounts expense and increased scheduled CTC amortization partially offset by decreased interest expense. Operating Revenues Net of Purchased Power and Fuel Expense There are certain drivers to revenue that are fully offset by their impact on purchased power expense and fuel expense, such as commodity procurement costs and customer choice programs. Gas revenues and fuel expense are affected by fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs. PECOs purchased natural gas cost rates charged to customers are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates in accordance with the PAPUCs PGC. Therefore, fluctuations in natural gas procurement costs have no impact on gas revenue net of fuel expense. The average purchased gas cost rate per mmcf was $8.80, $11.31 and $10.23 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. PECOs electric generation rates charged to customers are capped until December 31, 2010 in accordance with the 1998 restructuring settlement under the Competition Act. Under PECOs full requirements PPA with Generation, purchased power costs are based on the rates charged to customers. Electric revenues and purchased power expense fluctuate in relation to customer class usage as each customer class is charged a different capped electric generation rate; however, there is no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. Electric revenues and purchased power expense are also affected by fluctuations in participation in the Customer Choice Program. All PECO customers have the choice to purchase energy from a competitive electric generation supplier. This choice does not impact the volume of deliveries, but affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy and generation service. The number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was 21,700, 24,800 and 29,200 at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, representing 1%, 2% and 2% of total retail customers, respectively. The changes in PECOs electric revenue net of purchased power expense and gas revenue net of fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (24 ) $ 3 $ (21 ) Gas distribution rate increase 77 77 Volume (67 ) (2 ) (69 ) Pricing 22 22 Other 11 (4 ) 7 Total increase (decrease) $ (58 ) $ 74 $ 16 101 Table of Contents Weather The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather conditions. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months are referred to as favorable weather conditions because these weather conditions result in increased deliveries of electricity and gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. Electric revenues net of purchased power expense were lower due to the impact of unfavorable 2009 weather conditions in PECOs service territory and gas revenues net of fuel expense were higher due to the impact of unfavorable weather conditions in PECOs service territory in the winter months of 2008. Heating degree days were 3% higher and cooling degree days were 8% lower. Heating degree days and cooling degrees days are quantitative indices that reflect the demand for energy needed to heat or cool a home or business. Gas distribution rate increase The increase in gas revenues net of fuel expense reflected increased distribution rates effective January 1, 2009 resulting from the settlement of the 2008 gas distribution rate case. Volume The decrease in revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense as a result of lower delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected decreased electric usage per customer across all customer classes as well as decreased gas usage across the small commercial and industrial customer class. Pricing The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected the impact of lower PECO electric distribution rates in 2008 due to the refund of the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. The rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability related to the 2007 PURTA settlement reflected in taxes other than income. Other The increase in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense reflected an increase in revenues associated with shifts in volume among customer classes, which resulted in a different profile of rates as different customer classes are charged different rates. The changes in PECOs electric revenue net of purchased power expense and gas revenue net of fuel expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007 consisted of the following: Increase (Decrease) Electric Gas Total Weather $ (48 ) $ (6 ) $ (54 ) Settlement of PJM billing dispute (10 ) (10 ) Volume 14 14 Pricing (29 ) (29 ) Transmission (11 ) (11 ) Other 10 (1 ) 9 Total increase (decrease) $ (74 ) $ (7 ) $ (81 ) 102 Table of Contents Weather Revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense were lower due to the impact of unfavorable 2008 weather conditions in PECOs service territory. Heating and cooling degree days were 3% and 11% lower, respectively. Settlement of PJM Billing Dispute PECOs purchased power expense increased $10 million due to the impact of the favorable settlement of a PJM billing dispute with PPL during 2007. Volume The increase in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of higher delivery volume, exclusive of the effects of weather, reflected increased electric usage per customer, primarily in the residential electric customer class and an increased number of electric customers in all customer classes. Pricing The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense as a result of pricing reflected lower PECO electric distribution rates in 2008 due to the refund of the 2007 PURTA settlement to customers. The rate change had no impact on operating income because it was offset by the amortization of the regulatory liability related to the 2007 PURTA settlement reflected in taxes other than income. Transmission The decrease in electric revenues net of purchased power expense reflected decreased transmission revenue earned by PECO as a transmission owner for the use of PECOs transmission facilities in PJM. This revenue is based on the prior years summer peak, and the summer peak in 2007 was lower than in 2006. Transmission expenses increased due to increased allocated costs from PJM. Transmission expenses represent wholesale transmission costs and other costs allocated by PJM, including charges for transmission stabilization, default charges and RTEP costs. Other The increase in other electric revenues net of purchased power expense reflected an increase in revenues associated with volume shifts among customer classes, which resulted in a different profile of rates as different customer classes are charged different rates. Operating and Maintenance Expense The decrease in operating and maintenance expense for 2009 compared to 2008 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ (97 ) Incremental storm related costs (9 ) Materials and supplies (3 ) Pension and OPEB expense 11 Wages and salaries 5 Severance 3 Other (1 ) Decrease in operating and maintenance expense $ (91 ) 103 Table of Contents The increase in operating and maintenance expense for 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease) Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense $ 89 Wages and salaries 9 Fringe benefits 4 Contracting 1 Injuries and damages expense (2 ) Increase in operating and maintenance expense $ 101 Allowance for uncollectible accounts expense The decrease in allowance for uncollectible accounts expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2008 primarily reflects improved accounts receivable aging as a result of enhancements to credit processes and increased collection and termination activities initiated in September 2008 and continuing through 2009. The credit process enhancements and increased collection and termination activities resulted in increased allowance for uncollectible accounts expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to updated reserve estimates to reflect the anticipated increases in customer account charge offs associated with these activities as well as the further deterioration in actual and projected collections of PECOs higher risk customer accounts receivable. Depreciation and Amortization Expense The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 CTC amortization (a) $ 90 $ 78 Other 8 3 Increase in depreciation and amortization expense $ 98 $ 81 (a) The increase in PECOs scheduled CTC amortization recorded is in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement under the Competition Act. Taxes Other Than Income The increase in taxes other than income for 2009 compared to 2008 and the decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 consisted of the following: Increase(Decrease)2009 vs. 2008 Increase(Decrease)2008 vs. 2007 PURTA amortization (a) $ 34 $ (36 ) Reduction of reserve related to PURTA tax appeal (b) 17 Sales and use tax 3 Taxes on utility revenues (c) (22 ) 2 Other (1 ) (1 ) Increase (decrease) in taxes other than income $ 11 $ (15 ) 104 Table of Contents (a) The increase was due to the impact of amortization of the regulatory liability recorded during 2008 in connection with the 2007 PURTA settlement, which began in January 2008 and was fully amortized in January 2009. The impact of the amortization on operating income in 2008 was offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in the distribution rates to refund the PURTA taxes to customers. (b) On March 27, 2007, PECO prevailed in a Pennsylvania Supreme Court case in which PECO had contested the assessment of PURTA taxes applicable to 1997. As a result, PECO reduced the reserve associated with this matter. (c) The decrease in tax expense for 2009 compared to 2008 was due to a gross receipts tax rate reduction that became effective on January 1, 2009. Interest Expense, Net The decrease in interest expense, net for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in the outstanding debt balance owed to PETT, partially offset by an increase in interest expense associated with a higher amount of outstanding long term first and refunding mortgage bonds. Other, Net The decrease in Other, net for 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to the impact of interest income recorded in 2008 related to the SSCM settlement. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. The decrease in Other, net for 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the impacts of interest income recorded in 2007 related to the SSCM settlement, partially offset by an increase in interest income related to uncertain income tax positions. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the components of Other, net. Effective Income Tax Rate PECOs effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 29.3%, 31.6% and 31.2%, respectively. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the components of the effective income tax rates. PECO Electric Operating Statistics and Revenue Detail Retail Deliveries (in GWh) 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Full service (a) Residential 12,871 13,287 (3.1 )% 13,446 (1.2 )% Small commercial & industrial 8,044 8,211 (2.0 )% 8,288 (0.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 15,832 16,474 (3.9 )% 16,522 (0.3 )% Public authorities & electric railroads 930 909 2.3 % 930 (2.3 )% Total full service 37,677 38,881 (3.1 )% 39,186 (0.8 )% Delivery only (b) Residential 22 30 (26.7 )% 42 (28.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 353 469 (24.7 )% 571 (17.9 )% Large commercial & industrial 16 3 n.m. 14 (78.6 )% Total delivery only 391 502 (22.1 )% 627 (19.9 )% Total retail deliveries 38,068 39,383 (3.3 )% 39,813 (1.1 )% 105 Table of Contents (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO. (b) Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electric generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier. n.m. Not meaningful Electric Revenue 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Full service (a) Residential $ 1,857 $ 1,916 (3.1 )% $ 1,948 (1.6 )% Small commercial & industrial 1,015 1,028 (1.3 )% 1,042 (1.3 )% Large commercial & industrial 1,307 1,406 (7.0 )% 1,386 1.4 % Public authorities & electric railroads 90 87 3.4 % 89 (2.2 )% Total full service 4,269 4,437 (3.8 )% 4,465 (0.6 )% Delivery only (b) Residential 2 2 0.0 % 4 (50.0 )% Small commercial & industrial 19 25 (24.0 )% 30 (16.7 )% Total delivery only 21 27 (22.2 )% 34 (20.6 )% Total electric retail revenues 4,290 4,464 (3.9 )% 4,499 (0.8 )% Other revenue (c) 259 282 (8.2 )% 276 2.2 % Total electric and other revenue $ 4,549 $ 4,746 (4.2 )% $ 4,775 (0.6 )% (a) Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO, which includes the cost of energy, the cost of the transmission and the distribution of the energy and a CTC. (b) Delivery only revenue reflects revenue from customers electing to receive generation service from a competitive electric generation supplier, which includes a distribution charge and a CTC. (c) Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales. PECOs Gas Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail PECOs gas sales statistics and revenue detail were as follows: Deliveries to customers (in mmcf) 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Retail sales 57,103 56,110 1.8 % 58,968 (4.8 )% Transportation 27,206 27,624 (1.5 )% 27,632 (0.0 )% Total 84,309 83,734 0.7 % 86,600 (3.3 )% Revenue 2009 2008 % Change2009 vs. 2008 2007 % Change2008 vs. 2007 Retail sales $ 732 $ 795 (7.9 )% $ 784 1.4 % Transportation 21 19 10.5 % 17 11.8 % Resales and other 9 7 28.6 % 37 (81.1 )% Total gas revenue $ 762 $ 821 (7.2 )% $ 838 (2.0 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources The Registrants operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. The Registrants businesses are capital intensive and require considerable capital resources. Each Registrants access to external financing on reasonable terms 106 Table of Contents depends on its credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions, including that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Registrants no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO have access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $957 million, $4.8 billion, $952 million and $574 million, respectively. The Registrants credit facilities largely extend through October 2012 for Exelon, Generation and PECO and February 2011 for ComEd. Exelon, Generation, and PECO utilize their credit facilities to support their commercial paper programs, provide for other short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. ComEd uses its credit facilities to provide for short term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the Credit Matters section below for further discussion. The Registrants expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs and capital expenditure requirements. The Registrants primarily use their capital resources, including cash, to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension obligations and invest in new and existing ventures. The Registrants spend a significant amount of cash on capital improvements and construction projects that have a long term return on investment. Additionally, ComEd and PECO operate in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Registrants debt and credit agreements. Cash Flows from Operating Activities General Generations cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy to wholesale customers. Generations future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for and market prices of energy and its ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs as well as to obtain collections from customers. ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the transmission and distribution of electricity and, in the case of PECO, gas distribution services to an established and diverse base of retail customers. ComEds and PECOs future cash flows may be affected by the economy, weather conditions, future legislative initiatives, future regulatory proceedings with respect to their rates or operations, and their ability to achieve operating cost reductions. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits The funded status of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations refers to the difference between plan assets and Exelons estimated obligations under the plans. The funded status may change over time due to several factors, including contribution levels, assumed discount rates and actual and assumed rates of return on plan assets. During 2008, the unfunded status of Exelons plans increased significantly, primarily due to lower than expected asset returns. Exelon has continued to monitor financial market conditions and their impact on the plans during 2009. The unfunded balance of the plans decreased to $5.83 billion as of December 31, 2009 as compared to $6.38 billion at December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily a result of a $350 million discretionary pension contribution made during the third quarter, as well as significantly improved asset returns in 2009 compared to 2008. While a decrease in discount rates and other factors resulted in an increase in the pension and other postretirement obligation, it was more than offset by the significant increase in asset values. 107 Table of Contents The calculation of funding requirements for pension plans requires election of a methodology to determine the actuarial value of assets and the interest rate used to measure the pension liabilities. Recent pension funding guidance has modified some of those elections. On December 23, 2008, President Bush signed the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (WRERA), which allows the use of average assets, including expected returns (subject to certain limitations) for a 24 month period prior to the measurement date, in the determination of funding requirements, among other provisions. This option is referred to as asset smoothing. Exelon has elected to utilize asset smoothing for its largest pension plan and market value of assets for its remaining plans. These elections are expected to provide Exelon the opportunity to defer certain contributions to later years and potentially mitigate future contributions through investment market recovery. In March and September 2009, the U.S. Treasury Department provided guidance on the selection of the corporate bond yield curve for determining the interest rate used to calculate plan liabilities and determine pension funding requirements. There are other legislative and regulatory funding relief proposals also being discussed. Exelon is monitoring the progress of these initiatives and evaluating their potential impact on funding requirements and strategies. Management considers various factors when making funding decisions, including actuarially determined minimum contribution requirements under ERISA, as amended, and contributions required to avoid benefit restrictions for the pension plans. Regulatory requirements and the amount deductible for income tax purposes are among the factors considered in determining funding for the other postretirement benefit plans. During September 2009, Exelon made a discretionary pension contribution of $350 million to its largest pension plan, of which Generation, ComEd and PECO contributed $154 million, $153 million and $17 million, respectively. The contribution, combined with funding elections, is expected to reduce future contribution requirements. See the Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements section below for managements estimated pension contributions. Tax Matters During 2008, Generation benefited from a provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 which allowed companies an income tax deduction for a special transfer of funds from a non tax qualified NDT fund to a qualified NDT fund. As a result of interpretative guidance published by the IRS with respect to this provision in the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Generation completed a special transfer in the first quarter of 2008, which resulted in net positive cash flow of approximately $280 million in total for 2008 and 2009 combined. In addition, Exelon, through ComEd, has taken certain tax positions to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The IRS has disallowed the deferral of the gain on this sale. As more fully described in Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, a fully successful IRS challenge to Exelons and ComEds positions would accelerate income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that becomes currently payable. The ARRA of 2009 was enacted in the first quarter of 2009 and included an extension of the incentive from the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 that allows companies to claim an accelerated depreciation deduction for Federal income tax purposes equal to 50% of the cost basis of certain property placed in service during 2009. Exelon reduced its tax liability by approximately $340 million as a result of this special tax depreciation provision. 108 Table of Contents In 2009, Exelon received approval from the IRS to change its method of accounting for repair costs associated with Generations power plants. The new tax method of accounting resulted in net positive cash flow of approximately $420 million for 2009. Although the IRS granted Exelon approval to change its method of accounting, the approval did not affirm the methodology used to calculate the deduction. Exelon has requested the IRS to review its methodology through its Pre Filing Agreement program. Given the current economic environment, state and local governments are facing increasing financial challenges, which may increase the risk of additional income tax levies, property taxes, and other taxes. The following table provides a summary of the major items affecting Exelons cash flows from operations for the years ending December 31, 2009 and 2008: 2009 2008 Variance Net income $ 2,707 $ 2,737 $ (30 ) Add (subtract): Non cash operating activities (a) 3,930 3,400 530 Pension and non pension postretirement benefit contributions (588 ) (230 ) (358 ) Income taxes (29 ) (38 ) 9 Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities (b) (82 ) (221 ) 139 Option premiums received/(paid), net (40 ) (124 ) 84 Counterparty collateral, net 196 1,027 (831 ) Net cash flows provided by operations $ 6,094 $ 6,551 $ (457 ) (a) Represents depreciation, amortization and accretion, net mark to market gains on derivative transactions, deferred income taxes, provision for uncollectible accounts, pension and non pension postretirement benefit expense, equity in earnings and losses of unconsolidated affiliates and investments, decommissioning related items, stock compensation expense, impairment of long lived assets, and other non cash charges. (b) Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities exclude the changes in commercial paper, income taxes and the current portion of long term debt. Cash flows provided by operations for 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ 6,094 $ 6,551 Generation 3,930 4,445 ComEd 1,020 1,079 PECO 1,166 969 Changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in each Registrants respective results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for the Registrants for 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Generation During 2009 and 2008, Generation had net collections of counterparty collateral of $195 million and $1,029 million, respectively. Net collections in 2009 and 2008 were primarily due to market conditions that resulted in favorable changes to Generations net mark to market position. Depending upon whether Generation is in a net mark to market liability or asset position, 109 Table of Contents collateral may be required to be posted or collected from its counterparties. This collateral may be in various forms, such as cash, which may be obtained through the issuance of commercial paper, or letters of credit. During 2007, Generation, along with ComEd and other generators and utilities, reached an agreement with various representatives from the State of Illinois to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois. Generation committed to contributing approximately $747 million over four years. As part of the agreement, Generation contributed cash of approximately $118 million in 2009 and $274 million 2008. During 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from ComEd for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract (decreased) increased by ($58) million and $99 million, respectively. During 2009 and 2008, Generations accounts receivable from PECO under the PPA increased by $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During 2009 and 2008, Generation had net payments of approximately $40 million and $124 million, respectively, related to purchases and sales of options. The level of option activity in a given year may vary due to several factors, including changes in market conditions as well as changes in hedging strategy. ComEd During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to Generation for energy purchases related to its SFC, ICC approved RFP contracts and financial swap contract (decreased) increased by $(58) million and $99 million, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, ComEds payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases (decreased) increased by $(68) million and $41 million, respectively. PECO During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to Generation under the PPA increased by $48 million and $5 million, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, PECOs payables to other energy suppliers for energy purchases decreased by $43 million and $12 million, respectively. The 2009 decrease in payables to other energy suppliers is primarily due to an agreement executed in February 2009 between PECO, Generation and PJM that changed the way that PECO and Generation administer their PPA for default service. Cash Flows used in Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ (3,458 ) $ (3,378 ) Generation (2,220 ) (1,967 ) ComEd (821 ) (958 ) PECO (377 ) (377 ) 110 Table of Contents Capital expenditures by Registrant and business segment for 2009 and projected amounts for 2010 are as follows: 2009 2010 Generation (a) $ 1,977 $ 1,975 ComEd 854 935 PECO 388 500 Other (b) 54 30 Total Exelon capital expenditures $ 3,273 $ 3,440 (a) Includes nuclear fuel. (b) Other primarily consists of corporate operations and BSC. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Generation. Approximately 43% of the projected 2010 capital expenditures at Generation are for the acquisition of nuclear fuel, with the remaining amounts reflecting additions and upgrades to existing facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). Included in the projected 2010 capital expenditures are a series of planned power uprates across the companys nuclear fleet. See EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview, for more information on nuclear uprates. ComEd and PECO. Approximately 70% and 84% of the projected 2010 capital expenditures at ComEd and PECO, respectively, are for continuing projects to maintain and improve company operations, including enhancing reliability and adding capacity to the transmission and distribution systems. The remaining amounts are for capital additions to support new business, customer growth and AMI and Smart Grid technologies. PECOs projected 2010 capital expenditures do not include estimated costs for transmission system reliability upgrades that could be required by PJM related to Generations announced plant retirements. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. ComEd and PECO are each continuing to evaluate their total capital spending requirements. ComEd and PECO anticipate that they will fund their capital expenditures with internally generated funds and borrowings. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities for 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ (1,897 ) $ (2,213 ) Generation (1,746 ) (1,470 ) ComEd (155 ) (161 ) PECO (525 ) (587 ) 111 Table of Contents Debt. Debt activity for 2009 and 2008 by Registrant was as follows: Company Issuance of long term debt in 2009 Use of proceeds Generation $46 million of 3 year term rate Pollution Control Notes at 5.00% with a final maturity of December 1, 2042 Used to refinance $46 million of unenhanced tax exempt variable rate debt that was repurchased in February 23, 2009 (a) Generation $1.5 billion of Senior Notes, consisting of $600 million Senior Notes, 5.20% due October 1, 2019 and $900 million Senior Notes, 6.25% due October 1, 2039 Used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Generations 6.95% bonds due 2011 and for general corporate purposes, including a distribution to Exelon to fund the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% Notes due 2011 and to fund Generations September 2009 repurchase of variable rate long term tax exempt debt. The distributions were used to finance the purchase and optional redemption of Exelons 6.75% bonds due 2011. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds (c) ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds (c) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 (b) Used to repay credit facility borrowings incurred to repurchase bonds (a) PECO $250 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.00% due October 1, 2014 Used to refinance short term debt and for other general corporate purposes (a) Repurchase due to failed remarketing. (b) Remarketed in May 2009 with letter of credit issued under credit facility. (c) Repurchase required due to expiration of existing letter of credit. 112 Table of Contents Company Issuance of long term debt during the 2008 Use of proceeds ComEd $450 million of First Mortgage 6.45% Bonds, Series 107, due January 15, 2038 Used to retire $295 million of First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99, to call and refinance $155 million of trust preferred securities and for other general corporate purposes. ComEd $700 million of First Mortgage 5.80% Bonds, Series 108, due March 15, 2018 Used to repay a portion of borrowings under ComEds revolving credit facility, to provide for the retirement at scheduled maturity in May 2008 of $120 million of First Mortgage bonds, Series 83, and for general corporate purposes. ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (a)(b) Used to refinance $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (a)(b) Used to refinance $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 (a)(b) Used to refinance a portion of the outstanding tax exempt variable auction rate pollution control bonds secured by First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, 2003 B and 2003 D, due May 15, 2017, November 1, 2019 and January 15, 2014 PECO $150 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 4.00% due December 1, 2012 (c) Used to refinance First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 PECO $500 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.35% due March 1, 2018 Used to refinance commercial paper and for other general corporate purposes. PECO $300 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 5.60% Series due October 15, 2013 Used to refinance short term debt (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution control bonds that were issued to refinance variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) During the second quarter of 2008, ComEd established a $216 million letter of credit facility, of which $194 million was used to provide credit enhancement to variable rate tax exempt bonds including $3 million of accrued interest. That facility expired on May 9, 2009, and the letters of credit are no longer outstanding. (c) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 113 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2009 Exelon Corporate $500 million of 6.75% Senior Notes due May 1, 2011 Generation $700 million of 6.95% Senior Notes due June 15, 2011 Generation $46 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2042 (a) Generation $51 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $39 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due April 1, 2021 Generation $30 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due December 1, 2029 Generation $92 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $69 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2030 Generation $14 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $13 million of Pollution Control Notes with variable interest rates, due October 1, 2034 Generation $10 million of 6.33% notes payable, due August 8, 2009 Generation $1 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square capital lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 F, due March 1, 2017 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 D, due March 1, 2020 (b) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2008 E, due May 1, 2021 (c) ComEd $16 million of 5.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 1994 B, due January 15, 2009 ComEd $1 million of 4.625 4.75% sinking fund debentures, due at various dates PECO $319 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 PECO $390 million of 6.52% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2010 (a) Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in February 2009. (b) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to expiration of existing letter of credit and remarketed in May 2009. (c) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable weekly rate tax exempt pollution controls bonds. Repurchased due to a failed remarketing and remarketed in May 2009. 114 Table of Contents Company Retirement of long term debt in 2008 Exelon Corporate $21 million of 6.00 8.00% notes payable for investments in synthetic fuel producing facilities, due at various dates Generation $10 million scheduled payments of 6.33% notes payable until August 8, 2009 Generation $3 million scheduled payments of 7.83% Kennett Square Capital Lease until September 20, 2020 ComEd $295 million of 3.70% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 99 due February 1, 2008 ComEd $274 million of 5.74% ComEd Transitional Funding Trust, due December 25, 2008 ComEd $155 million of 8.50% Subordinated Debentures of ComEd Financing II, due January 15, 2027 ComEd $120 million of 8.00% First Mortgage Bonds, Series 83 due May 15, 2008 ComEd $100 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2002, due April 15, 2013 (a) ComEd $91 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2005, due March 1, 2017 (a) ComEd $50 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 C, due March 1, 2020 (a) ComEd $42 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 B, due November 1, 2019 (a) ComEd $40 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003, due May 15, 2017 (a) ComEd $20 million tax exempt variable auction rate First Mortgage Bonds, Series 2003 D, due January 15, 2014 (a) ComEd $2 million of 3.875 4.75% Sinking fund debentures due at various dates PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1, 2012 (b) PECO $4 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, variable rate due December 1,2012 (b) PECO $450 million of 3.5% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, due May 1, 2008 PECO $207 million of 6.13% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2008 PECO $369 million of 7.625% PETT Transition Bonds, due March 1, 2009 PECO $33 million of 7.65% PETT Transition Bonds, due September 1, 2009 (a) First Mortgage Bonds issued under the ComEd mortgage indenture to secure variable auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. (b) First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds issued under the PECO mortgage indenture to secure tax exempt pollution control bonds and notes that were issued to refinance auction rate tax exempt pollution control bonds. 115 Table of Contents From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Registrants may engage in long term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to strengthen their respective balance sheets. Dividends. Cash dividend payments and distributions during 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ 1,385 $ 1,335 Generation 2,276 1,545 ComEd 240 PECO 316 484 On January 26, 2010, the Exelon Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.525 per share on Exelons common stock, which is payable on March 10, 2010 to shareholders of record at the end of the day on February 16, 2010. Share Repurchases. During 2008, Exelon purchased $500 million of common stock under Exelons accelerated share repurchase program, including the impact of the settlement of a forward contract indexed to Exelons own common stock. Short Term Borrowings. During 2009, Exelon and PECO repaid $151 million and $95 million of commercial paper, respectively. During 2009, ComEd incurred $95 million of outstanding borrowings under its credit agreement. During 2008, Exelon and PECO repaid $95 million and $151 million, net, of commercial paper, respectively. During 2008, ComEd repaid $310 million of outstanding borrowings under its credit agreement. Retirement of Long Term Debt to Financing Affiliates. Retirement of long term debt to financing affiliates during 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Exelon $ 709 $ 1,038 ComEd 429 PECO 709 609 Contributions from Parent/Member. Contributions from Parent/Member (Exelon) during 2009 and 2008 by Registrant were as follows: 2009 2008 Generation $ 57 $ 86 ComEd 8 14 PECO(a) 347 320 (a) $320 million and $284 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, reflect payments received to reduce the receivable from parent. Other. Other significant financing activities for Exelon for 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Exelon received proceeds from employee stock plans of $42 million and $130 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively. Exelons other financing activities during 2009 and 2008 include $5 million and $60 million, respectively, of excess tax benefits, which represent the tax deduction in excess of the tax benefit related to compensation cost recognized for stock options exercised. 116 Table of Contents Credit Matters Recent Market Conditions The Registrants fund liquidity needs for capital investment, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large, diversified credit facilities. The credit facilities include $7.3 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.7 billion was available as of December 31, 2009, and of which no financial institution has more than 10% of the aggregate commitments for Exelon, Generation and PECO and 12% for ComEd. Generation also has additional letter of credit facilities that will expire in the second quarter of 2010, which are used to enhance variable rate long term tax exempt debt totaling $213 million. Generation intends to extend or replace the expiring letters of credit with new letters of credit at reasonable terms or remarket the bonds with an interest rate term not requiring letter of credit support. If Generation is unable to remarket these bonds at reasonable terms, Generation will repurchase them. Exelon, Generation and PECO had access to the commercial paper market during 2009 and they were able to fund their short term liquidity needs with commercial paper at favorable rates compared to 2008, when necessary. ComEd utilized its credit facility to fund its short term liquidity needs and provide credit enhancement for $191 million of variable rate tax exempt bonds. Due to an upgrade in ComEds commercial paper rating on July 22, 2009 and improvements in the commercial paper market, ComEd is expected to be able to access the commercial paper market as an additional source of liquidity. However, ComEd did not issue commercial paper in 2009 due to more favorable rates on credit facility draws. The Registrants routinely review the sufficiency of their liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. The Registrants have continued to closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising and merger activity. See PART I. ITEM 1A Risk Factors for further information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. The Registrants believe their cash flow from operations, access to credit markets and their credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity. If Generation lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $880 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacities of approximately $4.7 billion. The $880 million includes $673 million of collateral obligations for derivatives, non derivatives, normal purchase normal sales contracts and applicable payable and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements and $207 million of financial assurances that Generation would be required to provide NEIL related to annual retrospective premium obligations. If ComEd lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, it would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $207 million, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of approximately $546 million. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, it would have been required to provide collateral of $5 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy and could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $49 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which is well within PECOs current available credit facility capacity of $564 million. Exelon Credit Facilities Exelon meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper. Generation and PECO meet their short term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings from the intercompany money pool, and ComEd meets its short term liquidity requirements primarily through borrowings under its credit facility. While short term borrowing costs have not been significant to date, further uncertainty in the credit markets may result in increased costs for commercial paper borrowings. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets 117 Table of Contents could limit the ability of the Registrants to issue commercial paper, which may increase their reliance on their respective revolving credit agreements for short term liquidity purposes. The Registrants may use their respective credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including meeting short term funding requirements and the issuance of letters of credit. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Registrants credit facilities. ComEds $952 million credit facility agreement expires on February 16, 2011. ComEd expects to extend or replace that facility during 2010 and intends to increase the available commitments to total $1 billion. On October 23, 2009, Exelon entered into new credit facility agreements totaling $67 million with minority and community banks located primarily within its service territory. The credit agreements were for Generation, ComEd and PECO in the amounts of $7 million, $30 million and $30 million, respectively. These agreements are solely utilized for issuing letters of credit. As of December 31, 2009, Generation, ComEd and PECO had issued letters of credit under these agreements totaling $5 million, $24 million and $29 million, respectively. The following table reflects the Registrants commercial paper programs and revolving credit agreements at December 31, 2009. Commercial Paper Programs Commercial Paper Issuer Maximum Program Size (a) OutstandingCommercial Paper atDecember 31, 2009 Average Interest Rate onCommercial PaperBorrowings for thetwelve months endedDecember 31, 2009 Exelon Corporate $ 957 $ 0.72 % Generation 4,834 ComEd (b) 952 PECO 574 0.67 % Total $ 7,317 $ 0.71 % (a) Equals aggregate bank commitments under revolving credit agreements. (b) Prior to July 22, 2009, ComEd was unable to access the commercial paper market given the market environment. On July 22, 2009, ComEds commercial paper rating was upgraded giving it limited access to the commercial paper market. However, ComEd did not issue commercial paper due to more favorable rates on credit facility draws. In order to maintain their respective commercial paper programs in the amounts indicated above, each Registrant must have revolving credit facilities in place at least equal to the amount of its commercial paper program. While the amount of its commercial paper outstanding does not reduce available capacity under a Registrants credit agreement, a Registrant can not issue commercial paper in an aggregate amount exceeding the available capacity under its credit agreement. Revolving CreditAgreements Borrower Aggregate BankCommitment (a) OutstandingBorrowings/FacilityDraws OutstandingLetters ofCredit Available Capacity underRevolving CreditAgreements as ofDecember 31, 2009 Average Interest Rateon Borrowings fortwelve months endedDecember 31, 2009 Exelon Corporate $ 957 $ $ 5 $ 952 Generation 4,834 167 4,667 ComEd 952 155 251 546 0.79 % PECO 574 10 564 Total $ 7,317 $ 155 $ 433 $ 6,729 0.79 % 118 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $67 million of credit facility agreements arranged with minority and community banks in October 2009 which are solely utilized to issue letters of credit and expire on October 23, 2010. Interest rates on advances under the credit facilities are based on either prime or the LIBOR plus an adder based on the credit rating of the borrower as well as the total outstanding amounts under the agreement at the time of borrowing. In the cases of Exelon, Generation and PECO, the maximum LIBOR adder is 65 basis points; and in the case of ComEd, it is 162.5 basis points. Each credit agreement requires the affected borrower to maintain a minimum cash from operations to interest expense ratio for the twelve month period ended on the last day of any quarter. The interest coverage ratios exclude revenues and interest expenses attributable to securitization debt, certain changes in working capital, distributions on preferred securities of subsidiaries and interest on nonrecourse debt. The following table summarizes the minimum thresholds reflected in the credit agreements for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Credit agreement threshold 2.50 to 1 3.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 2.00 to 1 At December 31, 2009, the interest coverage ratios at the Registrants were as follows: Exelon Generation ComEd PECO Interest coverage ratio 13.97 35.65 5.52 5.65 An event of default under any Registrants credit facility will not constitute an event of default under any of the other Registrants credit facilities, except that a bankruptcy or other event of default in the payment of principal, premium or interest on any indebtedness having a principal amount in excess of $100 million in the aggregate by Generation (including Generations credit facility) will constitute an event of default under the Exelon credit facility. Security Ratings The Registrants access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and their respective financing costs in those markets may depend on the securities ratings of the entity that is accessing the capital markets. Listed below are the Registrants securities ratings as of December 31, 2009. Securities Moodys S&P Fitch Exelon Senior unsecured debt Baa1 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Generation Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB BBB+ Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 ComEd Senior unsecured debt Baa3 BBB BBB Senior secured debt Baa1 A BBB Commercial paper P3 A2 B PECO Senior unsecured debt A3 BBB A Senior secured debt A2 A A Commercial paper P2 A2 F2 Transition bonds(a) Aaa AAA AAA (a) Issued by PETT, an unconsolidated affiliate of PECO. 119 Table of Contents None of the Registrants borrowings are subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrading of securities although such a downgrading of a Registrants securities could increase fees and interest charges under that Registrants credit agreements. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. On July 21, 2009, following Exelons termination of efforts to acquire NRG, Fitch affirmed Exelons and Generations current ratings and removed both Registrants from Ratings Watch Negative. Both Registrants were assigned a Stable ratings outlook. On July 22, 2009, S&P affirmed the ratings for Exelon, Generation and PECO and removed each Registrant from CreditWatch Negative. S&P also raised ComEds corporate credit rating to BBB from BBB , its senior secured rating to A from BBB+, its senior unsecured rating to BBB from BBB , and its short term rating to A2 from A3. S&P also removed ComEds ratings from CreditWatch Negative. The outlook for all ratings is Stable. On July 23, 2009, Moodys confirmed Exelons and Generations current ratings and PECOs long term debt rating. The outlook for Exelons and Generations debt rating is Stable. PECOs long term debt rating was placed on Negative outlook and its short term rating was downgraded to P2 from P1. On August 3, 2009, Moodys changed its methodology widening the notching between most senior secured debt ratings and senior unsecured debt ratings of investment grade regulated utilities. As a result, ComEds senior secured ratings increased to Baa1 from Baa2. On January 25, 2010, Fitch upgraded ComEds senior secured debt ratings to BBB+ from BBB and its senior unsecured debt ratings to BBB from BBB . ComEds commercial paper rating increased to F3 from B. Fitch also affirmed the ratings of Exelon, Generation and PECO and their ratings outlook as Stable. Fitch cited ComEds financial improvement over the past year and a more settled regulatory and legislative environment in Illinois as contributing factors for the upgrade. As part of the normal course of business, the Registrants enter into contracts that contain express provisions or otherwise permit the Registrants and their counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contract law, if the Registrants are downgraded by a credit rating agency, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance, which could include the posting of collateral. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on collateral provisions. Other Credit Matters Capital Structure At December 31, 2009, the capital structures of the Registrants consisted of the following: ExelonConsolidated Generation ComEd PECO (a) Long term debt 46 % 35 % 39 % 40 % Long term debt to affiliates (b) 3 2 11 Common equity 50 58 47 Members equity 65 Preferred securities 2 Commercial paper and notes payable 1 1 (a) As of December 31, 2009, PECOs capital structure, excluding the impacts of the deduction from shareholders equity of the $180 million receivable from Exelon (which amount is deducted for GAAP purposes as reflected in the table above) would consist of 48% common equity, 2% preferred securities and 50% long term debt, including long term debt to unconsolidated affiliates. 120 Table of Contents (b) Includes approximately $805 million, $206 million and $599 million owed to unconsolidated affiliates of Exelon, ComEd and PECO, respectively, that qualify as special purpose entities under the applicable authoritative guidance. These special purpose entities were created for the sole purposes of issuing transition bonds to securitize intangible transition property consisting of CTCs of PECO or mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of ComEd and PECO. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the authoritative guidance for VIEs. Intercompany Money Pool To provide an additional short term borrowing option that will generally be more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing, Exelon operates an intercompany money pool. As of January 10, 2006, ComEd voluntarily suspended its participation in the money pool. Generation, PECO, and BSC may participate in the intercompany money pool as lenders and borrowers, and Exelon may participate as a lender. Funding of, and borrowings from, the intercompany money pool are predicated on whether the contributions and borrowings result in economic benefits. Interest on borrowings is based on short term market rates of interest or, if from an external source, specific borrowing rates. Maximum amounts contributed to and borrowed from the intercompany money pool by participant during 2009 are described in the following table in addition to the net contribution or borrowing as of December 31, 2009: MaximumContributed MaximumBorrowed December 31, 2009Contributed(Borrowed) Generation $ 138 $ $ PECO 106 BSC 140 (15 ) Exelon Corporate 103 N/A 15 Shelf Registrations The Registrants filed automatic shelf registration statements that are not required to specify the amount of securities to be offered thereon. As of December 31, 2009, the Registrants each had current shelf registration statements for the sale of unspecified amounts of securities that were effective with the SEC. The ability of each Registrant to sell securities off its shelf registration statement or to access the private placement markets will depend on a number of factors at the time of the proposed sale, including other required regulatory approvals, as applicable, the current financial condition of the Registrant, its securities ratings and market conditions. Regulatory Authorizations The issuance by ComEd of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the ICC. The issuance by PECO of long term debt or equity securities requires the prior authorization of the PAPUC. ComEd and PECO normally obtain the required approvals on a periodic basis to cover their anticipated financing needs for a period of time or in connection with a specific financing. As of December 31, 2009, ComEd had $389 million in long term debt refinancing authority from the ICC and $399 million in new money long term debt financing authority. As of December 31, 2009, PECO had $1.9 billion in long term debt financing authority from the PAPUC. FERC has financing jurisdiction over ComEds and PECOs short term financings and all of Generations financings. As of December 31, 2009, ComEd and PECO had short term financing authority from FERC that expires on December 31, 2011 of $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Generation currently has blanket financing authority that it received from FERC in connection with its market based rate authority. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 121 Table of Contents Exelons ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. The Federal Power Act declares it to be unlawful for any officer or director of any public utility to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of such public utility from any funds properly included in capital account. In addition, under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. At December 31, 2009, Exelon had retained earnings of $8,134 million, including Generations undistributed earnings of $2,169 million, ComEds retained earnings of $304 million consisting of retained earnings appropriated for future dividends of $1,943 million partially offset by $1,639 million of unappropriated retained deficit, and PECOs retained earnings of $426 million. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding fund transfer restrictions. Investments in Synthetic Fuel Producing Facilities Exelon, through three separate wholly owned subsidiaries, owned interests in two limited liability companies and one limited partnership that owned synthetic fuel producing facilities. Prior to December 31, 2007, Section 45K (formerly Section 29) of the IRC provided tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. The ability to earn these synthetic fuel tax credits expired on December 31, 2007 and, as such, the synthetic fuel producing facilities that Exelon had interests in ceased operations on or before December 31, 2007. In March 2008, the IRS published the 2007 Oil Reference Price which resulted in a 67% phase out of tax credits for calendar year 2007 that reduced Exelons earned after tax credits of $258 million to $85 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Exelon generated approximately $220 million of cash over the life of these investments. As a result of the phase out of tax credits in 2008 and the timing of the realization of tax benefits earned in prior years, Exelon collected approximately $200 million of cash in 2008, which includes $44 million collected in the first quarter of 2008 related to the settlement of derivatives that were entered into in the normal course of trading operations in 2005 to economically hedge a portion of the exposure to a phase out of the tax credits. 122 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Exelon The following table summarizes Exelons future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2015and beyond AllOther 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Long term debt (a) $ 12,428 $ 1,052 $ 1,422 $ 1,319 $ 8,635 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 8,457 666 1,195 1,019 5,577 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 372 1 371 Capital leases 38 2 5 6 25 Operating leases 713 67 130 111 405 Purchase power obligations (d) 2,433 396 636 296 1,105 Fuel purchase agreements 10,679 1,237 2,335 2,073 5,034 Other purchase obligations (e) 1,128 570 399 148 11 City of Chicago agreement 2003 (f) 18 6 12 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,017 1,017 Pension minimum funding requirement (g) 3,596 243 894 1,658 801 Other postretirement benefits minimum funding requirement (h) 228 48 93 87 Total contractual obligations $ 41,107 $ 4,288 $ 7,121 $ 6,717 $ 22,610 $ 371 (a) Includes $415 million and $390 million due in 2010 and thereafter, respectively, to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2009 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2009. Includes estimated interest payments due to ComEd and PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2009, Exelons liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $371 million and $0 million, respectively. Exelon was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. Exelon has other unrecognized tax positions that were not recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with authoritative guidance. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding unrecognized tax positions. (d) Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2009. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. These obligations do not include ComEds SFCs as these contracts do not require purchases of fixed or minimum quantities. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. (f) In 2003, ComEd entered separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (g) These amounts represent Exelons estimated minimum pension contributions to its qualified plans required under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as well as discretionary contributions necessary to avoid benefit restrictions. These amounts represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contributions for years after 2015 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may choose to make additional discretionary contributions. (h) These amounts represent estimated minimum other postretirement benefit contributions required under a PAPUC rate order. These minimum contributions represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. The minimum required contribution for years after 2014 are currently not reliably estimable. Exelon may contribute more than the minimum funding requirements; however, these amounts are not included above as such amounts are discretionary. 123 Table of Contents Exelons commitments as of December 31, 2009, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 297 $ 289 $ 8 $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 14 11 3 Surety bonds (c) 76 7 69 Performance guarantees (d) 96 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (e) 218 193 25 Nuclear insurance premiums (f) 2,204 2,204 Lease guarantees (g) 125 15 110 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (h) 6 3 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (i) 10 4 6 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (j) 25 25 Construction commitments (k) 196 51 68 77 Total commitments $ 3,267 $ 583 $ 113 $ 187 $ 2,384 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries maintain non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. As of December 31, 2009, guarantees of $9 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amounts of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $213 million at Generation and $191 million at ComEd are reflected in long term debt in Exelons Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (d) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts with unaffiliated third parties. (e) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (f) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act as well as the current aggregate annual retrospective premium obligation that could be imposed by NEIL. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on Generations nuclear insurance premiums. (g) Lease guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure payments on building leases. (h) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $8 million, $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the 2007 City of Chicago Settlement. (i) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. (j) See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations and ComEds rate relief commitments. (k) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds and PECOs construction commitments. 124 Table of Contents Generation The following table summarizes Generations future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. (in millions) Total Payment due within Due 2015and beyond AllOther 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Long term debt $ 2,959 $ 24 $ $ 500 $ 2,435 $ Interest payments on long term debt (a) 2,515 161 321 295 1,738 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (b) 117 1 116 Capital leases 38 2 5 6 25 Operating leases 425 27 52 48 298 Purchase power obligations (c) 2,433 396 636 296 1,105 Fuel purchase agreements 10,105 1,085 2,162 1,950 4,908 Other purchase obligations (d) 636 263 257 105 11 Spent nuclear fuel obligation 1,017 1,017 Total contractual obligations $ 20,245 $ 1,959 $ 3,433 $ 3,200 $ 11,537 $ 116 (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2009 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2009. (b) As of December 31, 2009, Generations liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $100 million and $17 million, respectively. Generation was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (c) Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented represent Generations expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2009. Expected payments include certain capacity charges that are contingent on plant availability. Expected payments exclude renewable PPA contracts that are contingent in nature. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. Generations commitments as of December 31, 2009, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Total Expiration within 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a)(b) $ 172 $ 172 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (c) 11 11 Surety bonds (d) 3 3 Performance guarantees (e) 96 95 1 Energy marketing contract guarantees (f) 218 193 25 Nuclear insurance premiums (g) 2,204 2,204 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (h) 24 24 Total commitments $ 2,728 $ 400 $ 25 $ 95 $ 2,208 (a) Letters of credit (non debt) Non debt letters of credit maintained to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. Guarantees of $8 million have been issued to provide support for certain letters of credit as required by third parties. (b) The amount includes letters of credit that are posted to ComEd related to the Illinois procurement auction. (c) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $213 million is reflected in long term debt in Generations Consolidated Balance Sheet. 125 Table of Contents (d) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (e) Performance guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure execution under specific contracts with unaffiliated third parties. (f) Energy marketing contract guarantees Guarantees issued to ensure performance under energy commodity contracts. (g) Nuclear insurance premiums Represent the maximum amount that Generation would be required to pay for retrospective premiums in the event of nuclear disaster at any domestic site under the Secondary Financial Protection pool as required under the Price Anderson Act as well as the current aggregate annual retrospective premium obligation that could be imposed by NEIL. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on Generations nuclear insurance premiums. (h) See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on Generations rate relief commitments. Mystic Development, LLC (Mystic), a former affiliate of Exelon New England, had a long term agreement through January 2020 with Distrigas of Massachusetts Corporation (Distrigas) for gas supply, primarily for the Boston Generating units. Under the agreement, gas purchase prices from Distrigas were indexed to the New England gas markets. Exelon New England had guaranteed Mystics financial obligations to Distrigas under the long term supply agreement. Exelon New Englands guarantee to Distrigas remained in effect following the transfer of ownership interest in Boston Generating in May 2004. Under the authoritative guidance for guarantees, approximately $13 million was included as a liability within Exelons and Generations Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007 related to this guarantee. In April 2008, Distrigas, Exelon New England and Mystic entered into agreements that terminated the guarantee, which resulted in Generations elimination of the guarantee liability and the recognition of $13 million of income. Generation has an obligation to decommission its nuclear power plants. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. During 2008, the value of the NDT funds declined significantly due to unrealized losses as a result of adverse financial market conditions. Despite this decline in value, Generation believes that the NDT funds for the nuclear generating stations formerly owned by ComEd, PECO and AmerGen, the expected earnings thereon and, in the case of the former PECO stations, the amounts collected from PECOs customers will ultimately be sufficient to fully fund Generations decommissioning obligations for its nuclear generating stations in accordance with NRC regulations. However, NRC minimum funding requirements may require Generation to take steps to address the funded status of the NDT funds. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generations five units that have been retired or are within five years of the current approved license life) addressing Generations ability to meet the NRC estimated funding levels. Depending on the value of the NDT funds, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or make additional contributions to the NDT funds, which could be significant, to ensure that the NDTs are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of matters regarding the adequacy of Generations NDT funds to meet its decommissioning obligations, the obligations imposed on Generation related to the potential excess or shortfall of NDT funds, the impact on Generations accounting for its former ComEd units as a result of a shortfall of NDT funds and other matters related to Generations NDT funds and decommissioning obligations. 126 Table of Contents ComEd The following table summarizes ComEds future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2015and beyond AllOther 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Long term debt (a) $ 4,944 $ 213 $ 797 $ 269 $ 3,665 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 3,473 280 506 423 2,264 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 279 279 Operating leases 95 17 32 26 20 2003 City of Chicago agreement (d) 18 6 12 Electric supply procurement 645 615 30 REC purchase commitments 8 8 Other purchase obligations (e) 115 99 16 Total contractual obligations $ 9,577 $ 1,238 $ 1,393 $ 718 $ 5,949 $ 279 (a) Includes $206 million due after 2015 to a ComEd financing trust. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2009 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2009. Includes estimated interest payments due to the ComEd financing trust. (c) As of December 31, 2009, ComEds liability for uncertain tax positions and related net interest payable were $251 million and $28 million, respectively. ComEd was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of liability and interest payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) In 2003, ComEd entered into separate agreements with the City of Chicago and with Midwest Generation. Under the terms of the agreements, ComEd will pay the City of Chicago $60 million over ten years to be relieved of a requirement, originally transferred to Midwest Generation upon the sale of ComEds fossil stations in 1999, to build a 500 MW generation facility. (e) Other purchase commitments include commitments for services, materials and information technology. ComEds commitments as of December 31, 2009, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 80 $ 80 $ $ $ Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage (b) 3 3 2007 City of Chicago Settlement (c) 6 3 3 Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee (d) 10 4 6 Surety bonds (e) 2 2 Rate relief commitments settlement legislation (f) 1 1 Construction commitments (g) 91 16 23 52 Total commitments $ 193 $ 106 $ 35 $ 52 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) ComEd maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Letters of credit (long term debt) interest coverage Reflects the interest coverage portion of letters of credit supporting floating rate pollution control bonds. The principal amount of the floating rate pollution control bonds of $191 million is reflected in long term debt in ComEds Consolidated Balance Sheet. (c) 2007 City of Chicago Settlement In December 2007, ComEd entered into an agreement with the City of Chicago. Under the terms of the agreement, ComEd will pay $55 million over six years, of which $8 million, $18 million and $23 million was paid in December 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 127 Table of Contents (d) Midwest Generation Capacity Reservation Agreement guarantee In connection with ComEds agreement with the City of Chicago entered into on February 20, 2003, Midwest Generation assumed from the City of Chicago a Capacity Reservation Agreement that the City of Chicago had entered into with Calumet Energy Team, LLC. ComEd has agreed to reimburse the City of Chicago for any nonperformance by Midwest Generation under the Capacity Reservation Agreement. (e) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (f) See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds rate relief commitments. (g) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on ComEds construction commitments. PECO The following table summarizes PECOs future estimated cash payments under existing contractual obligations, including payments due by period. Total Payment due within Due 2015and beyond AllOther 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Long term debt (a) $ 2,824 $ 415 $ 625 $ 550 $ 1,234 $ Interest payments on long term debt (b) 1,549 154 243 176 976 Liability and interest for uncertain tax positions (c) 1 1 Operating leases 73 15 30 27 1 Fuel purchase agreements (d) 574 152 173 123 126 Electric supply procurement 938 888 50 AEC purchase commitments 37 9 19 9 Other purchase obligations (e) 233 149 52 32 Total contractual obligations $ 6,229 $ 894 $ 2,030 $ 967 $ 2,337 $ 1 (a) Includes $415 million and $184 million due in 2010, and thereafter, respectively, to PECO financing trusts. (b) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2009 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or debt issuances. Includes estimated interest payments due to PECO financing trusts. (c) As of December 31, 2009, PECOs liability for uncertain tax positions was $1 million. PECO was unable to reasonably estimate the timing of certain liability payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (d) Represents commitments to purchase natural gas and related transportation and storage capacity and services. (e) Commitments for services, materials and information technology. PECOs commitments as of December 31, 2009, representing commitments potentially triggered by future events, were as follows: Expiration within Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015and beyond Letters of credit (non debt) (a) $ 39 $ 32 $ 7 $ $ Surety bonds (b) 3 3 Construction commitments (c) 105 35 45 25 Total commitments $ 147 $ 70 $ 52 $ 25 $ (a) Letters of credit (non debt) PECO maintains non debt letters of credit to provide credit support for certain transactions as requested by third parties. (b) Surety bonds Guarantees issued related to contract and commercial agreements, excluding bid bonds. (c) See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on PECOs construction commitments. 128 Table of Contents For additional information regarding: commercial paper, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. long term debt, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, see Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. capital lease obligations, see Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. operating leases, energy commitments, fuel purchase agreements, construction commitments and rate relief commitments, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. the nuclear decommissioning and SNF obligations, see Notes 11 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. regulatory commitments, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Variable Interest Entities Generation. Generations wholesale operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generating capacity, and long , intermediate and short term contracts. Generation also has contracts to purchase fuel supplies for nuclear and fossil generation. These contracts and Generations membership in NEIL are not consolidated in Exelons and Generations financial statements pursuant to the provisions of the authoritative guidance for VIEs. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Financing Trusts of ComEd and PECO. The financing trust of ComEd, ComEd Financing III, and the financing trusts of PECO, namely PECO Trust III, PECO Trust IV and PETT, are not consolidated in Exelons, ComEds and PECOs financial statements. Amounts of $206 million and $599 million, respectively, owed by ComEd and PECO to these financing trusts were recorded as long term debt to financing trusts and PETT within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Nuclear Insurance Coverage Generation carries property damage, decontamination and premature decommissioning insurance for each station loss resulting from damage to Generations nuclear plants, subject to certain exceptions. Additionally, Generation carries business interruption insurance in the event of a major accidental outage at a nuclear station. Finally, Generation participates in the Master Worker Program, which provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused by a nuclear energy accident. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. For its types of insured losses, Generation is self insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. PECO Accounts Receivable Agreement PECO is party to an agreement with a financial institution under which it sold an undivided interest, adjusted daily, in up to $225 million of designated accounts receivable, which PECO accounted for as 129 Table of Contents a sale as of December 31, 2009. Under authoritative guidance effective January 1, 2010, this agreement will be accounted for as a secured borrowing. See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. PECO retains the servicing responsibility for the sold receivables and has recorded a servicing liability. The agreement terminates on September 16, 2010 unless extended in accordance with its terms. As of December 31, 2009, PECO was in compliance with the requirements of the agreement. In the event the agreement is not extended, PECO has sufficient short term liquidity and will seek alternate financing. See Note 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the servicing liability. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. In November 2008, the SEC issued a roadmap for the potential use of IFRS in the U.S. IFRS is a set of accounting standards developed by the International Accounting Standards Board, whose mission is to develop a single set of global financial reporting standards for general purpose financial statements. The roadmap indicates that the SEC will reconvene in 2011 to evaluate progress towards certain identified milestones and decide whether a mandatory IFRS conversion should be required for all U.S. issuers beginning with large accelerated filers in 2014. Further guidance from the SEC is expected in 2010. Exelon is currently evaluating the potential impact IFRS may have on its financial statements. 130 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, counterparty credit, interest rates and equity prices. Exelons RMC approves risk management policies and objectives for risk assessment, control and valuation, counterparty credit approval and the monitoring and reporting of risk exposures. The RMC is chaired by the chief risk officer and includes the chief financial officer, general counsel, treasurer, vice president of strategy, vice president of audit services and officers representing Exelons business units. The RMC reports to the Exelon Board of Directors on the scope of the risk management activities. Commodity Price Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) To the extent the amount of energy Exelon generates differs from the amount of energy it has contracted to sell, Exelon has price risk from commodity price movements. Commodity price risk is associated with price movements resulting from changes in supply and demand, fuel costs, market liquidity, weather conditions, governmental regulatory and environmental policies, and other factors. Exelon seeks to mitigate its commodity price risk through the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel, and other commodities. Within Exelon, Generation has the most exposure to commodity price risk. PECO has transferred substantially all of its near term electricity commodity price risk to Generation through a PPA that expires at the end of 2010. PECOs commodity price risk following the expiration of its generation rate caps and the PPA is addressed by its DSP Program, which allows for full cost recovery. As a mechanism to reduce commodity price risk relating to natural gas, PECO has implemented a natural gas procurement policy that is designed to achieve a reasonable balance of long term and short term gas purchases under different pricing approaches in order to achieve system supply reliability at the least cost. PECOs actual costs of natural gas are recovered from customers through the PAPUCs PGC, which allows PECO to adjust rates quarterly to reflect realized natural gas prices. ComEd has transferred most of its near term commodity price risk to generating companies through the ICC approved procurement processes and a significant portion of its longer term commodity price risk to Generation through the five year financial swap contract that expires on May 31, 2013. The Illinois Settlement Legislation provides for the pass through of procurement costs by ComEd to its customers. Generation Generations energy contracts are accounted for under derivative accounting guidance. Economic hedges may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception, which is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Economic hedges that do not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception are recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the derivatives recorded at fair value are recognized in results of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met and the derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, in which case, changes in fair value are recorded in OCI and gains and losses are recognized in results of operations when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet the hedge criteria or are not designated as such are recognized in current results of operations. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities. Electricity available from Generations owned or contracted generation supply in excess of Generations obligations to customers, including ComEds and PECOs retail load, is sold into the wholesale markets. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Generation enters into physical contracts as well as financial derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps and options, with approved counterparties to hedge anticipated exposures. Generation believes these instruments represent economic hedges that mitigate exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. Generation expects the settlement of the majority of its economic hedges will occur during 2010 through 2012 and the ComEd financial swap contract during 2010 through 2013. 131 Table of Contents The economic hedge activity resulted in a net mark to market energy contract asset position, excluding the rights of offset for derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements and the application of collateral, of $2,691 million at December 31, 2009, comprised of a net energy contract asset for cash flow hedges of $1,912 million and a net energy contract asset for other derivatives of $779 million. The net mark to market asset position for the portfolio at December 31, 2009 is a result of forward market prices decreasing relative to the contracted price of the derivative instruments, the majority of which are hedges of future power sales. Activity associated with the cash flow hedges is recognized through accumulated OCI until the period in which the associated physical sale of power occurs. At that time, the cash flow hedges mark to market position is reversed and reclassified as results of operations, which when combined with the impacts of the actual physical power sale, results in the ultimate recognition of net revenues at the contracted price. In general, increases and decreases in forward market prices have a positive and negative impact, respectively, on Generations owned and contracted generation positions which have not been hedged. Generation hedges commodity risk on a ratable basis over the three years leading to the spot market. As of December 31, 2009, the percentage of expected generation hedged was 91% 94%, 69% 72%, and 37% 40% for 2010, 2011, and 2012, respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation represents the amount of energy estimated to be generated or purchased through owned or contracted capacity. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include cash flow hedges, other derivatives and certain non derivative contracts including sales to ComEd and PECO to serve their retail load. A portion of Generations hedging strategy may be accomplished with fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. During peak periods, Generations amount hedged declines to meet its energy and capacity commitments to ComEd and PECO. Market price risk exposure is the risk of a change in the value of unhedged positions. The forecasted market price exposure for Generations non trading portfolio associated with a $5 reduction in the annual average Ni Hub and PJM West around the clock energy price based on December 31, 2009 market conditions and hedged position would be a decrease in pre tax net income of approximately $40 million, $285 million and $497 million, respectively, for 2010, 2011, and 2012. Power price sensitivities are derived by adjusting the power price assumptions while keeping all other price inputs constant. Generation expects to actively manage its portfolio to mitigate market price exposure for its unhedged position. Actual results could differ depending on the specific timing of, and markets affected by, price changes as well as future changes in Generations portfolio. Proprietary Trading Activities. Generation uses financial contracts for proprietary trading purposes. Proprietary trading includes all contracts entered into purely to profit from market price changes as opposed to hedging an exposure. These activities are accounted for on a mark to market basis. The proprietary trading activities are a complement to Generations energy marketing portfolio but represent a very small portion of Generations overall energy marketing activities. For example, the limit on open positions in electricity for any forward month represents less than one percent of Generations owned and contracted supply of electricity. Generation expects this level of proprietary trading activity to continue in the future. The proprietary trading activities included volumes of 7,578 GWh, 8,891 GWh, and 20,323 GWh for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Trading portfolio activity for the year ended December 31, 2009 resulted in pre tax gains of $1 million due to net mark to market losses of $83 million and realized gains of $84 million. Generation uses a 95% confidence interval, one day holding period and one tailed statistical measure in calculating its Value at Risk (VaR). The daily VaR on proprietary trading activity averaged $120,000 of exposure over the last 18 months. Because of the relative size of the proprietary trading portfolio in comparison to Generations total gross margin from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $6,771 million, Generation has not segregated proprietary trading activity in the 132 Table of Contents following tables. The trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop loss and VaR limits to manage exposure to market risk. Additionally, the Exelon risk management group and Exelons RMC monitor the financial risks of the proprietary trading activities. ComEd The financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd was deemed prudent by the Illinois Settlement Legislation, thereby ensuring that ComEd will be entitled to receive full cost recovery in rates. The change in fair value each period is recorded by ComEd with an offset to a regulatory asset or liability. The contracts that ComEd has entered into as part of the initial ComEd auction and the RFP contracts are deemed to be derivatives that qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under derivative accounting guidance. ComEd does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO Generation and PECO have entered into a long term full requirements PPA under which PECO obtains all of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The PPA is not considered a derivative. Pursuant to the PECOs PAPUC approved DSP Program, PECO began to procure electric supply in 2009 for the post transition period beginning on January 1, 2011. PECO has entered into block contracts and full requirements fixed price contracts to procure electric supply for its residential, small commercial and medium commercial procurement classes. The full requirements fixed price contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales scope exception. PECO records the fair value of the block contracts on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, since these block contracts were executed in accordance with the PAPUC approved DSP Program and PECO will receive full cost recovery in rates, PECO did not elect hedge accounting and the fair value of the contracts is recorded by PECO as a regulatory asset or liability. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivatives. PECO has also entered into derivative natural gas contracts to hedge its long term price risk in the natural gas market. All of PECOs natural gas supply and management agreements that are derivatives qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. Trading and Non Trading Marketing Activities. The following detailed presentation of Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs trading and non trading marketing activities is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers (CCRO). 133 Table of Contents The following table provides detail on changes in Exelons, Generations, ComEds and PECOs mark to market net asset or liability balance sheet position from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009. It indicates the drivers behind changes in the balance sheet amounts. This table incorporates the mark to market activities that are immediately recorded in earnings as well as the settlements from OCI to earnings and changes in fair value for the hedging activities that are recorded in accumulated OCI on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. This table excludes all normal purchases and normal sales contracts. Generation ComEd PECO IntercompanyEliminations (e) Exelon Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at January 1, 2008 (a) (g) $ (564 ) $ 456 $ $ $ (108 ) Total change in fair value during 2008 of contracts recorded in result of operations 602 602 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (131 ) (131 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income 44 44 Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (b) 544 (24 ) 520 Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c)(f) 1,784 (888 ) 896 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (d) (912 ) 912 Changes in collateral (1,024 ) (1,024 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) (g) 124 124 Other income statement reclassifications (h) (5 ) (5 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications (11 ) (11 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2008 (a)(g) $ 1,363 $ (456 ) $ $ $ 907 Total change in fair value during 2009 of contracts recorded in result of operations 137 137 Reclassification to realized at settlement of contracts recorded in results of operations (24 ) (24 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income (15 ) (15 ) Reclassification to realized at settlement from accumulated OCI (b) (1,559 ) 267 (1,292 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value recorded in OCI (c)(f) 2,052 (784 ) 1,268 Changes in fair value energy derivatives (d) (515 ) (4 ) 517 (2 ) Changes in collateral (194 ) (194 ) Changes in net option premium paid/(received) (g) 40 40 Other income statement reclassifications (h) (46 ) (46 ) Other balance sheet reclassifications 15 15 Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2009 (a) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 (a) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties. (b) For Generation, includes $267 million loss and $24 million gain of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income related to the settlement of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 134 Table of Contents (c) For Generation, includes $782 million and $888 million gain of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $2 million gain of changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2009. (d) For ComEd, the changes in fair value are recorded as a change in regulatory assets or liabilities. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, ComEd recorded a regulatory asset of $971 million and $456 million, respectively, related to the mark to market derivative liability on the financial swap with Generation. During 2009 and 2008 this includes $782 million and $888 million of changes in fair value, respectively, and $267 million of gains and $24 million of losses, respectively, of reclassifications from regulatory asset to purchased power expense due to settlements. For PECO, the changes in fair value are recorded in a regulatory asset or liability. As of December 31, 2009, PECO recorded a $4 million regulatory asset related to the fair value of its mark to market derivative liability for its block contracts, which includes $2 million related to PECOs block contracts with Generation. (e) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. Amounts related to the block contracts between Generation and PECO are also eliminated in consolidation. (f) For Generation, includes $15 million and $44 million of changes in cash flow hedge ineffectiveness, of which none was related to Generations financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. (g) Exelon and Generation retrospectively reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. (h) Includes $46 million and $5 million of amounts reclassified to realized at settlement of contracts recorded to results of operations related to option premiums due to the settlement of the underlying transactions for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following tables detail the balance sheet classification of the mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) recorded as of December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 Generation (a)(b) ComEd (a) PECO (a) IntercompanyEliminations (c) Exelon Current assets $ 678 $ $ $ (302 ) $ 376 Noncurrent assets 1,310 (671 ) 639 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,988 (973 ) 1,015 Current liabilities (198 ) (302 ) 302 (198 ) Noncurrent liabilities (21 ) (669 ) (4 ) 671 (23 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (219 ) (971 ) (4 ) 973 (221 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 1,769 $ (971 ) $ (4 ) $ $ 794 (a) Includes current and noncurrent assets for Generation and current and noncurrent liabilities for ComEd of $302 million and $669 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. Includes a noncurrent asset for Generation and a noncurrent liability for PECO of $2 million related to the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. (b) Current and noncurrent assets are shown net of collateral of $502 million and $376 million, respectively, and current liabilities are shown net of collateral of $69 million. The allocation of collateral had no impact to noncurrent liabilities. The total cash collateral received net of cash collateral posted and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities was $947 million at December 31, 2009. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd and the block contracts between Generation and PECO are eliminated in consolidation. 135 Table of Contents December 31, 2008 Generation (a)(b)(d) ComEd (a) IntercompanyElimination (c) Exelon (d) Current assets $ 591 $ $ (111 ) $ 480 Noncurrent assets 1,007 (345 ) 662 Total mark to market energy contract assets 1,598 (456 ) 1,142 Current liabilities (212 ) (111 ) 111 (212 ) Noncurrent liabilities (23 ) (345 ) 345 (23 ) Total mark to market energy contract liabilities (235 ) (456 ) 456 (235 ) Total mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities) $ 1,363 $ (456 ) $ $ 907 (a) Includes current and noncurrent asset for Generation and current and noncurrent liability for ComEd of $111 million and $345 million, respectively, related to the fair value of Generations and ComEds five year financial swap contract. (b) Current and noncurrent assets are shown net of collateral of $355 million and $333 million, respectively, and current liabilities are shown net of collateral of $65 million. The allocation of collateral had no impact to noncurrent liabilities. The total cash collateral received net of cash collateral posted and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities was $753 million at December 31, 2008. (c) Amounts related to the five year financial swap between Generation and ComEd are eliminated in consolidation. (d) Exelon and Generation reclassified certain assets and liabilities with respect to option premiums into the mark to market net asset and liability accounts to conform with current year presentation. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Fair Values The majority of Generations contracts are non exchange traded contracts valued using prices provided by external sources, primarily price quotations available through brokers or over the counter, on line exchanges. Prices reflect the average of the bid ask, mid point prices obtained from all sources that Generation believes provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The terms for which such price information is available vary by commodity, region and product. The remainder of the contracts, which are primarily option contracts, represents contracts for which external valuations are not available. These contracts are valued using the Black model, an industry standard option valuation model. The fair values reflect the level of forward prices and volatility factors as of December 31, 2009 and may change as a result of changes in these factors. Management uses its best estimates to determine the fair value of commodity and derivative contracts Generation, ComEd and PECO hold and sell. These estimates consider various factors including closing exchange and over the counter price quotations, time value, volatility factors and credit exposure. It is possible, however, that future market prices could vary from those used in recording assets and liabilities from the swap between Generation and ComEd, energy marketing, trading activities and such variations could be material. Refer to Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding valuation. The following tables, which present maturity and source of fair value of mark to market energy contract net assets (liabilities), provides two fundamental pieces of information. First, the tables provide the source of fair value used in determining the carrying amount of the Registrants total mark to market asset or (liability). Second, the tables provide the maturity, by year, of the Registrants net assets (liabilities), giving an indication of when these mark to market amounts will settle and either generate or require cash. 136 Table of Contents Exelon Maturities Within Total FairValue 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 379 $ 225 $ 59 $ 4 $ 1 $ $ 668 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (2 ) (1 ) (5 ) (8 ) Total $ 379 $ 223 $ 58 $ (1 ) $ 1 $ $ 660 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c): Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by external sources (172 ) 272 74 174 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (25 ) (4 ) (7 ) (36 ) Total $ (201 ) $ 268 $ 67 $ $ $ $ 134 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $947 million at December 31, 2009. Generation Maturities Within Total FairValue 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andBeyond Normal Operations, qualifying cash flow hedge contracts (a)(c): Prices provided by external sources $ 379 $ 225 $ 59 $ 4 $ 1 $ $ 668 Prices based on model or other valuation methods 302 313 271 81 967 Total $ 681 $ 538 $ 330 $ 85 $ 1 $ $ 1,635 Normal Operations, other derivative contracts (b)(c) : Actively quoted prices $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (4 ) Prices provided by external sources (172 ) 272 74 174 Prices based on model or other valuation methods (25 ) (4 ) (7 ) (36 ) Total $ (201 ) $ 268 $ 67 $ $ $ $ 134 (a) Mark to market gains and losses on contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI. Includes $971 million gain associated with the five year financial swap with ComEd and $2 million related to the fair value of the PECO block contracts. (b) Mark to market gains and losses on other non trading hedge and trading derivative contracts that do not qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in results of operations. (c) Amounts are shown net of collateral paid to and received from counterparties and offset against mark to market assets and liabilities of $947 million at December 31, 2009. 137 Table of Contents ComEd Maturities Within 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andBeyond Total Fair Value Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ 302 $ 311 $ 272 $ 86 $ $ $ 971 (a) Represents ComEds net liabilities associated with the five year financial swap with Generation. PECO Maturities Within 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 andBeyond Total Fair Value Prices based on model or other valuation methods (a) $ $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 4 (a) Represents PECOs net liabilities associated with its block contracts executed under its DSP Program. Includes $2 million related to the fair value of PECOs block contracts with Generation. Cash Flow Hedges The table below provides details of effective cash flow hedges included in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2009. The data in the table gives an indication of the magnitude of the hedges Generation has in place; however, since not all hedges are recorded in OCI, the table does not provide an all encompassing picture of Generations hedges. The table also includes a rollforward of accumulated OCI related to cash flow hedges from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009, providing insight into the drivers of the changes (new hedges entered into during the period and changes in the value of existing hedges). Total Cash Flow Hedge OCI Activity,Net of Income Tax Generation Exelon Income StatementLocation Energy RelatedHedges TotalCash FlowHedges Accumulated OCI derivative loss at January 1, 2008 $ (548) (a) $ (292 ) Effective portion of changes in fair value 1,101 (b) 567 Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income Operating Revenue 328 (c) 314 Ineffective portion recognized in income Purchased Power (26) (26 ) Accumulated OCI derivative gain at December 31, 2008 $ 855 (a) $ 563 Effective portion of changes in fair value 1,227 (b) 757 Reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income Operating Revenue (939) (c) (778 ) Ineffective portion recognized in income Purchased Power 9 9 Accumulated OCI derivative gain at December 31, 2009 $ 1,152 (a),(d) $ 551 (a) Includes $585 million gain, $275 million gain and $275 million loss, net of taxes, related to the fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, and $1 million of gains, net of taxes, related to the fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2009. 138 Table of Contents (b) Includes $471 million and $535 million gains, net of taxes, of the effective portion of changes in fair value of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $1 million of gain, net of taxes, of the effective portion of changes in fair value of the block contracts with PECO for the year ended December 31, 2009. (c) Includes $161 million loss and $15 million gain, net of taxes, of reclassifications from accumulated OCI to net income related to the settlements of the five year financial swap contract with ComEd for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (d) Excludes $5 million gain, net of taxes, related to interest rate swaps settled for the year ended December 31, 2009. See Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Credit Risk (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation In September 2006, Generation participated in and won portions of the ComEd and Ameren electricity supply auctions. Beginning in 2007 and as a result of the auctions, Generations sales to counterparties other than ComEd and PECO increased due to the expiration of the PPA with ComEd on December 31, 2006. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Generation participated in the 2008 ComEd RFP procurement process and will continue to have credit risk in connection with contracts for sale of electricity resulting from the ICC approved competitive procurement process. Generation has credit risk associated with counterparty performance on energy contracts which includes, but is not limited to, the risk of financial default or slow payment. Therefore, Generations credit risk profile has changed based on the credit worthiness of the new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. For additional information on the Illinois auction and the various regulatory proceedings, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Generation enters into enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with its counterparties, which reduces Generations exposure to counterparty risk by providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. Typically, each enabling agreement is for a specific commodity and so, with respect to each individual counterparty, netting is limited to transactions involving that specific commodity product, except where master netting agreements exist with a counterparty that allows for cross product netting. In addition to payment netting language in the enabling agreement, the credit department establishes margining thresholds and collateral requirements for each counterparty, which are defined in each contract. Counterparty credit limits are based on an internal credit review that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. To the extent that a counterpartys margining thresholds are exceeded, the counterparty is required to post collateral with Generation as specified in each enabling agreement. The credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. See the Collateral section below for additional information. 139 Table of Contents The following tables provide information on Generations credit exposure for all derivative instruments, normal purchase normal sales agreements and applicable payables and receivables, net of collateral and instruments that are subject to master netting agreements, as of December 31, 2009. The tables further delineate that exposure by credit rating of the counterparties and provide guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. The figures in the tables below do not include credit risk exposure from uranium procurement contracts or exposure through RTOs, ISOs and NYMEX and ICE commodity exchanges, which are discussed below. Additionally, the figures in the tables below do not include exposures with affiliates, including net receivables with ComEd and PECO of $123 million and $174 million, respectively. See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Rating as of December 31, 2009 TotalExposureBefore CreditCollateral CreditCollateral NetExposure Number ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Net Exposure ofCounterpartiesGreater than 10%of Net Exposure Investment grade $ 1,183 $ 464 $ 719 1 $ 76 Non investment grade 15 5 10 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 34 5 29 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,233 $ 475 $ 758 1 $ 76 Maturity of Credit Risk Exposure Rating as of December 31, 2009 Less than2 Years 2 5Years ExposureGreater than5 Years Total ExposureBefore CreditCollateral Investment grade $ 1,071 $ 112 $ $ 1,183 Non investment grade 15 15 No external ratings Internally rated investment grade 22 12 34 Internally rated non investment grade 1 1 Total $ 1,109 $ 124 $ $ 1,233 Net Credit Exposure by Type of Counterparty As of December 31, 2009 Financial institutions $ 259 Investor owned utilities, marketers and power producers 431 Other 68 Total $ 758 ComEd Credit risk for ComEd is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. ComEd is currently obligated to provide service to all electric customers within its franchised territory. ComEd records a provision for uncollectible accounts, based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. ComEd will monitor nonpayment from customers and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. In February 2010, the ICC approved ComEds tariffs to adjust rates annually 140 Table of Contents through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. The Illinois Settlement Legislation prohibits utilities, including ComEd, from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year. ComEds ability to disconnect non space heating residential customers is also impacted by certain weather restrictions, at any time of year, under the Illinois Public Utilities Act. ComEd will monitor the impact of its disconnection practices and will make any necessary adjustments to the provision for uncollectible accounts. ComEd did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2009. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEds recently approved tariffs to adjust rates annually through a rider mechanism to reflect increases or decreases in annual uncollectible accounts expense. ComEds power procurement contracts provide suppliers with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The credit position is based on the price of energy in the spot market compared to the benchmark prices. The benchmark prices are the future prices of energy projected through the contract term and are set at the point of contract execution. If the price of energy in the spot market exceeds the benchmark price, the suppliers are required to post collateral for the secured credit portion. The unsecured credit used by the suppliers represents ComEds credit exposure. As of December 31, 2009, ComEds credit exposure to energy suppliers was immaterial and did not exceed the unsecured levels allowed by contract. PECO Credit risk for PECO is managed by credit and collection policies, which are consistent with state regulatory requirements. PECO is currently obligated to provide service to all retail electric customers within its franchised territory. PECO records a provision for uncollectible accounts, primarily based upon historical experience, to provide for the potential loss from nonpayment by these customers. In accordance with PAPUC regulations, after November 30 and before April 1, an electric distribution utility or natural gas distribution utility shall not terminate service to customers with household incomes at or below 250% of the Federal poverty level. PECOs provision for uncollectible accounts will continue to be affected by changes in prices as well as changes in PAPUC regulations. PECO did not have any customers representing over 10% of its revenues as of December 31, 2009. PECO has a PPA with Generation under which Generation has agreed to supply PECO with all of PECOs electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources at prices that are currently below current market prices. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues earned from customers as specified by PECOs 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the Competition Act. As noted under Item 1A. Risk Factors, PECO could be negatively affected if Generation could not perform under the PPA. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP Program contracts, which define a suppliers performance assurance requirements, allow a supplier to meet its credit requirements with a certain amount of unsecured credit. The amount of unsecured credit is determined based on the suppliers lowest credit rating from S&P, Fitch or Moodys and the suppliers tangible net worth. The credit position is based on the initial market price, which is the forward price of energy on the day a transaction is executed, compared to the current forward price curve for energy. If the forward price curve for energy exceeds the initial market price, the supplier is required to post collateral to the extent the credit exposure is greater than the suppliers unsecured credit limit. As of December 31, 2009, PECOs credit exposure to suppliers under its electric procurement contracts was 141 Table of Contents immaterial and did not exceed unsecured levels allowed by the supplier master agreements. As of December 31, 2009, PECO had no net credit exposure to energy suppliers. PECO does not obtain collateral from suppliers under its natural gas supply and management agreements. As of December 31, 2009, PECO had credit exposure of $13 million under its natural gas supply and management contracts. Collateral (Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation As part of the normal course of business, Generation routinely enters into physical or financial contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, fossil fuel and other commodities. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit Generation and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable law, if Generation is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance. Depending on Generations net position with a counterparty, the demand could be for the posting of collateral. In the absence of expressly agreed to provisions that specify the collateral that must be provided, the obligation to supply the collateral requested will be a function of the facts and circumstances of the situation at the time of the demand. If Generation can reasonably claim that it is willing and financially able to perform its obligations, it may be possible to successfully argue that no collateral should be posted or that only an amount equal to two or three months of future payments should be sufficient. Generation sells output through bilateral contracts. The bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations. Any failure to collect these payments from counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As market prices rise above contracted price levels, Generation is required to post collateral with purchasers; as market prices fall below contracted price levels, counterparties are required to post collateral with Generation. In order to post collateral, Exelon depends on access to bank credit lines which serve as liquidity sources to fund collateral requirements. Since the banking industry issues started to surface in mid 2007, credit markets have tightened. Exelon will be required to renew most of its credit facilities in the 2011 2012 timeframe. The cost and availability to renew may be substantially different than when Exelon originally negotiated the existing liquidity facilities. As of December 31, 2009, Generation was holding $965 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties and Generation had sent $12 million of cash collateral to counterparties. Net cash collateral deposits received of $947 million were offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, $6 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, Generation was holding $758 million of cash collateral deposits received from counterparties, of which $753 million was offset against mark to market assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2008, $5 million of cash collateral received was not offset against net mark to market assets and liabilities. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the letters of credit supporting the cash collateral. 142 Table of Contents ComEd Beginning in 2007, under the Illinois auction rules and the SFCs that Generation and other suppliers entered into with ComEd, collateral postings will be one sided from Generation and the other suppliers only. Therefore, if market prices fall below ComEds benchmark price levels, ComEd is not required to post collateral; however, if market prices rise above the benchmark price levels with ComEd, Generation and the other suppliers may be required to post collateral once certain unsecured credit limits are exceeded. Under the terms of the 5 year financial swap contract with ComEd, there are no immediate collateral provisions on either party. However, the swap contract also provides that: (1) if ComEd is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys or S&P, or (2) if Generation is downgraded below investment grade by Moodys or S&P, collateral postings would be required by the applicable party depending on how market prices compare to the benchmark price levels. Under the terms of the financial swap contract, collateral postings will never exceed $200 million from either ComEd or Generation. As of December 31, 2009, there was no cash collateral or letters of credit posted between any suppliers, including Generation, and ComEd associated with the SFCs. Illinois Settlement Legislation passed during 2007 established a new procurement process in place of the procurement auctions. Beginning in June 2009, under the terms of ComEds standard block energy contracts, collateral postings are only required from the supplier, including Generation, should exposures between market prices and benchmark prices exceed unsecured credit limits outlined in the agreement. The terms of ComEds procurement contracts provide that collateral requirements of the suppliers are affected by their security ratings. As stipulated in the Illinois Settlement Legislation as well as the ICC approved procurement tariff, ComEd is permitted to recover its costs of procuring power and energy plus any prudent costs that a utility incurs in arranging and providing for the supply of electric power and energy. Thus all costs associated with collateral postings are recoverable from retail customers through ComEds procurement tariff. See Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. PECO If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, it would have been required to provide collateral of $5 million pursuant to PJMs credit policy. PECOs supplier master agreements that govern the terms of its DSP program contracts do not contain provisions that would require PECO to post collateral. PECOs natural gas procurement contracts contain provisions that require PECO to post collateral. This collateral may be posted in the form of cash or credit support with thresholds contingent upon PECOs credit rating from Moodys and S&P. The collateral and credit support requirements vary by contract and by counterparty. As of December 31, 2009, PECO was not required to post any additional collateral for any of these agreements. If PECO lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2009, PECO could have been required to provide collateral of approximately $49 million related to its natural gas procurement contracts, which is well within its current available credit facility capacity of $564 million. RTOs and ISOs. Generation, ComEd and PECO participate in all, or some, of the established, real time energy markets that are administered by PJM, ISO NE, New York ISO, MISO, Southwest Power Pool, Inc. and the ERCOT. In these areas, power is traded through bilateral agreements between buyers and sellers and on the spot markets that are operated by the RTOs or ISOs, as applicable. In areas where there is no spot market, electricity is purchased and sold solely through bilateral agreements. For sales into the spot markets administered by an RTO or ISO, the RTO or ISO maintains financial assurance policies 143 Table of Contents that are established and enforced by those administrators. The credit policies of the RTOs and ISOs may under certain circumstances require that losses arising from the default of one member on spot market transactions be shared by the remaining participants. Non performance or non payment by a major counterparty could result in a material adverse impact on the Registrants results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Exchange Traded Transactions. Generation enters into commodity transactions on NYMEX and ICE. The NYMEX and ICE clearinghouse acts as the counterparty to each trade. Transactions on the NYMEX and ICE must adhere to comprehensive collateral and margining requirements. As a result, transactions on NYMEX and ICE are significantly collateralized and have limited counterparty credit risk. Generation and PECO Fuel Procurement. Generation procures coal through annual, short term and spot market purchases and natural gas through annual, monthly and spot market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long term contracts for uranium concentrates and long term contracts for conversion services, enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas, uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Supply market conditions may make Generations procurement contracts subject to credit risk related to the potential non performance of counterparties to deliver the contracted commodity or service at the contracted prices. Approximately 56% of Generations uranium concentrate requirements from 2010 through 2014 are supplied by three producers. In the event of non performance by these or other suppliers, Generation believes that replacement uranium concentrates can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Non performance by these counterparties could have a material impact on Exelons and Generations results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding uranium and coal supply agreement matters. PECO procures natural gas from suppliers under both short term and long term contracts. PECOs natural gas procurement plan is reviewed and approved annually on a prospective basis by the PAPUC. PECOs counterparty credit risk under its natural gas supply agreements is mitigated by its ability to recover its natural gas costs through the PAPUC PGC that allows PECO to adjust rates quarterly to reflect realized natural gas prices. Exelon Exelons consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2009, included a $602 million net investment in direct financing leases. The investment in direct financing leases represents the estimated residual value of leased assets at the end of the respective lease terms of $1.5 billion, less unearned income of $890 million. The lease agreements provide the lessees with fixed purchase options at the end of the lease terms. If the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options, Exelon has the ability to require the lessees to return the leasehold interests or to arrange a service contract with a third party for a period following the lease term. If Exelon chooses the service contract option, the leasehold interests will be returned to Exelon at the end of the term of the service contract. In any event, Exelon will be subject to residual value risk if the lessees do not exercise the fixed purchase options. Lessee performance under the lease agreements is supported by collateral and credit enhancement measures including letters of credit, surety bonds and credit swaps. Management regularly evaluates the credit worthiness of Exelons counterparties to these direct financing leases. During 2008 and 2009, the entity providing the credit enhancement for one of the lessees did not meet the credit rating requirements of the lease. Consequently, Exelon has indefinitely extended a waiver and reduction of the rating requirement, which Exelon may terminate by giving 90 days notice to the lessee. 144 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk (Exelon, Generation and ComEd) The Registrants use a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt to manage interest rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to lock in interest rate levels in anticipation of future financings. These strategies are employed to achieve a lower cost of capital. At December 31, 2009, Exelon had $100 million of notional amounts of fair value hedges outstanding. A hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rates associated with variable rate debt would result in less than a $1 million decrease in Exelons, Generations and ComEds pre tax earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates. Equity Price Risk (Exelon and Generation) Exelon and Generation maintain trust funds, as required by the NRC, to fund certain costs of decommissioning Generations nuclear plants. As of December 31, 2009, Generations decommissioning trust funds are reflected at fair value on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mix of securities in the trust funds is designed to provide returns to be used to fund decommissioning and to compensate Generation for inflationary increases in decommissioning costs; however, the equity securities in the trust funds are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets, and the value of fixed rate, fixed income securities are exposed to changes in interest rates. Generation actively monitors the investment performance of the trust funds and periodically reviews asset allocation in accordance with Generations NDT fund investment policy. A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and decrease in equity prices would result in a $412 million reduction in the fair value of the trust assets. This calculation holds all other variables constant and assumes only the discussed changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of equity price risk as a result of the current capital and credit market conditions. 145 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 146 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 147 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2009, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $952 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2009, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 150 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 151 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION Generation General Generation operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to Generations executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared To Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of Generations results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations Generation in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Generations business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. Generations capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, participation in the intercompany money pool or capital contributions from Exelon. Generations access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where Generation no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, Generation has access to revolving credit facilities of $4.8 billion that Generation currently utilizes to support its commercial paper program and to issue letters of credit. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund Generations capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of distributions to Exelon, contributions to Exelons pension plans and investments in new and existing ventures. Future acquisitions could require external financing or borrowings or capital contributions from Exelon. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 146 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to Generations cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to Generation is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of Generations contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of Generations critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Generation Generation is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit, interest rates and equity price. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 147 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2009, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $952 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2009, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 150 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 151 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION ComEd General ComEd operates in a single business segment and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail and wholesale sale of electricity and distribution and transmission services in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of ComEds results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations ComEd in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources ComEds business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. ComEds capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, or credit facility borrowings. ComEds access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. At December 31, 2009, ComEd had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $952 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. See the EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to the Financial Statements of this Form 10 K for further discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund ComEds capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, ComEd operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 148 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to ComEds cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to ComEd is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of ComEds contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of ComEds critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ComEd ComEd is exposed to market risks associated with commodity price, credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 149 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2009, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 150 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 151 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION PECO General PECO operates in two business segments that are aggregated into one reportable segment, and its operations consist of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services in southeastern Pennsylvania including the City of Philadelphia, and the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution service in Pennsylvania in the counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. Executive Overview A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs executive overview is set forth under EXELON CORPORATION Executive Overview of this Form 10 K. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 A discussion of PECOs results of operations for 2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007 is set forth under Results of Operations PECO in EXELON CORPORATION Results of Operations of this Form 10 K. Liquidity and Capital Resources PECOs business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. PECOs capital resources are primarily provided by internally generated cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, external financing, including the issuance of long term debt, commercial paper, or participation in the intercompany money pool. PECOs access to external financing at reasonable terms is dependent on its credit ratings and general business conditions, as well as that of the utility industry in general. If these conditions deteriorate to where PECO no longer has access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, PECO has access to a revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2009, PECO had access to a revolving credit facility with aggregate bank commitments of $574 million. See the Credit Matters section of Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional discussion. Capital resources are used primarily to fund PECOs capital requirements, including construction, retirement of debt, the payment of dividends and contributions to Exelons pension plans. Additionally, PECO operates in a rate regulated environment in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited and where such recovery takes place over an extended period of time. Cash Flows from Operating Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from operating activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Operating Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Cash Flows from Investing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from investing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Investing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. 150 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities A discussion of items pertinent to PECOs cash flows from financing activities is set forth under Cash Flows from Financing Activities in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Credit Matters A discussion of credit matters pertinent to PECO is set forth under Credit Matters in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements A discussion of PECOs contractual obligations, commercial commitments and off balance sheet arrangements is set forth under Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements in EXELON CORPORATION Liquidity and Capital Resources of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates See Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above for a discussion of PECOs critical accounting policies and estimates. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PECO PECO is exposed to market risks associated with credit and interest rates. These risks are described above under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Exelon. 151 Table of Contents 
 
